‘FOIA Slaw! 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

STANDARD FORM NO. 64 
@ 
@ 
Office Memo: .dum + owitep s1 
OVERNMEN 
To 
wn 
FROM 
SUBJECT: 
a 
Director, FBI 
hy 
DATE: September 4, 1947 
l/ 
SAC, San Francisco 
L“ 
AIRMAIL 
SPECIAL DELIVERY 
REPORTS of -#trmNG DISCS 
ea ee 
Enclosed is a copy of a letter dated August 25, 1947, with 
attachment fran Lt. Col, DONALD L. SPRINGER of A~2, Hamilton Field, 
California. Even though Col. SPRINGER feels that Mr. JOHNSON may 
have read some of his claims in a newspaper, Col, SPRINGER believes 
that Mr. F. MX JOHNSON should be interviewed in this matter. 
In accordance with Bureau Bulletin No. 42, dated July 30, 
1947, Portland is requested to exhaustively interview Mr. F. M. 
JOHNSON, 106 N.W. First Ave., Portland, Oregon, regarding his 
alleged sighting of a "flying disc" on June 24, 1947. Copies of 
the result of this interview should be furnished the San Francisco 
Field Office for distribution to the 6th Army Intelligence. 
DWK:MR 
Encls. 2 
62-2938 
cc Portland (Encls. 4) ~ AMSD 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

DECLASSIFIED 
Authority 
NND 90986 
HEADQUA 
FORCE 
Office of 
ant Chief of Steff, 
atellicence 
Hamilton Field, California 
4AFDA 
Plying Disc. 
Special Agent in Charge, FBI, U. 
S. Department of Justice, 
Federal Office Building, Room 422, San Francisco, Calif. 
le 
The attached true copy of a letter from Mr. F. 
was received by this officer 22 August 1947. 
2e 
Your attention is invited to the similerity between Arnold's 
early report and this gentleman's report, 
A possibility exists that 
Mrs Johnson might have read some of this in the newspapers when Arnold 
was publicized re this mattere 
Be 
This headquarters does not intend to investigate this incident. 
It is requested thet a result of any interview you may make be furnished 
this Headquarters. 
LU 
DONALD L. SPRINGER 
(dup) 
Lt. Colonel, Gse 
Ltr fr F.M.dohnson 
AG of S, A-2 
(True Cy) 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

« Cole Donald L. Springer, Assistant Staff 
ir. 
Saw in the portlar 
ar 
hort time a 
le in regards’ to the so 
flying disc 
; 
@ prospector and was in the 
Pact. 
1 say 8 
on June 24th the day 
ation of flyin 
; 
wale 
a 
plane. 
tail end 
looked 
li 
ig 
hend of a 
ide like a 
speed 
greater 
we: 
+ 
standing 
big magenet. 
There 
as 
far as i lmow 
m anything 
I ever saw. 
Last 
I 
. on edge Banking 
in a Cloud. 
A TRUE COPY: 
a, aso/ 
A=? 0 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

STANRARD FORM NO. 64 
SUBJECT: 
Office: Men 
dum * UNITED § 
GOVERNMENT 
Director, FBI 
DATE: 
September 4, 1937 
Atten: 
Assistant Director D. M. LADD 
SAC, San Francisco 
REPORTS OF FLYING DIGS 
AIRMAIL 
Enclosed for your information are copies of two letters 
from Lt. Col. DONALD L. SPRINGER of A~2, Hamilton Field, California, 
dated August 27, 1947, with attachments reporting the sighting of 
"flying discs" on Guam, and result of A-2 investigation at Tacoma 
and Kelso, Washington. 
DWK:MR 
62-2938 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

AAPDA 
“se cCecpDer 
HEADQUARTERS FOURTH AIR FORCE 
Office of the Assistent Chief of Steff, Aq2 
Intelligence 
Hamilton Field, Californie 
VRLUALE 
a 
27 August 1947 
355.5/1208-1 
993 ka 
6 
SUBJECT: Re Flying Disc. 
TOs 
Special Agent in Charge, FBI, U. S. Department of Justice, 
Federal Office 8uilding, Room 422, San Francisco, California. 
1. Following is extract from the Weekly Intelligence Summary, 
Air Transport Command, Washington 25, D. C., dated 20 August 1947, 
_ Copy Noe 120, Article I, Pe ls 
“PLYING OBJECTS IN GUAM: Unidentified flying objects have 
boon Observed by 
three American enlisted men of the 147th Air= 
ways and Air Communications Service Squadron at Harmon Field, 
Guem, The men report that at 1040 hours on 14 August 1947 the 
‘two objects, which they describe as small, crescent shaped and 
traveling at a speed twice that of a fighter plane, passed over 
them on a zig-zag course in a westerly direction at an 
proxi= 
mate altitude of twelve hundred feet. The objects disappeared 
‘into clouds and a few seconds later a similar object possibly 
one of those previously observed, emerged from the clouds and 
proceeded west. No further details have been reported." 
2- For your information. 
Le. SPRIN 
Lt. Colonel, GSC 
AG of 8, An? 
i 2) 
to 
( 
0 
tty 
“4 
i 
\ 
| 
y 
{ 
| 
\ 


--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---

HEADQUARTERS FOURTH AIR FORCE 
Office of the Assistant Chief of Steff, A~2 
Intelligence 
Hamilton Field, California 
4APDA 
27 August 1947 
333 .5/1208-1 
SUBJECT: Investigation of Flying Disc. 
Special Agent in Charge, FBI, U. S, Department of Justice, 
Federal Office Building, Room 422, San Francisco, California. 
Attached summary forwarded for your informations 
DONALD L. SPRINGER 
1 Inel: 
Lte Colonel, ¢S¢ 
Summary of Information. 
AC of S, A-2 
AUG 30 1947 
SAN FRANCISCC 
ROUTED TO 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

fH AIR FORCE 
Chief of Staff, A-: 
telligence 
lamilton Field, California 
4AFDA 
27 August 1947 
33345/1208~=1 
SUBJECT; 
Investigetion of Flying Disc. 
70: 
Special Agent in Charge, FBI, U. S. Department of Justice, 
Seattle, Washington. 
« 
Attached summary forwarded for your information, 
DONALD L. SPRINGER 
of Information. 
Lt. Colonel, GSC 
AC of 8, Au2 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

copy 
WE SERVICE 
7 8 (62a AAP BU) 
wechora Pield, Tacoma, “ashington 
4@ August 1947 
Final “Mission Report 
Commanding Officer 
Air Rescue Service 
MacDill Field, Florida 
MISSION NUMBER Thirtyeline. 
ATURE. 
Q- 
At C400 PST, 1 August 47, ARMY FLIGHT SERVICE notified this 
Getachnent that a plene had been seen to crash and burn thirteen (13) miles 
south of KELIO, Washington (46°R'N, 122°65'W). 
Se ACTION 
Se 
1 Aug 47. At 04:50 PST, AVS received information from Mre 0. 
Ce Clark, local sheriff of KELSO, Washs, that the scene of the crash ws 
fifteen (15) to twenty (20) miles east of KELSO in the vicinity of OOBLE 
The KELSO Chief of Police saw an airoraft fly low over the tom, 
then crash and burn to the east. The time was about 0236 Ps 
A 
gheck of 
aircraft mown to be in the vicinity revealed that 5-25 (1516 had departed 
IC 
RD FIELD at O212 PST for HAMILTON FIELD, California. 
‘The weather was 
reported as CPR, A full moon made visibility exceptionally goods 
the 
pilot's name was CAPT. W. C. DAVIDSON; the plane carried three (3) additional 
~~ 
personas. 
‘the Base Operntions Officer and Base PIO were notified. 
This 
detachment began organizing a ground party of base personnel] to eupplement 
that being formed by the KELSO Chief of Police. 
At 0500 PST information 
was received from KELSO by APS that ground fog in the valleys et the 
seene 
of the crash was preventing a ground party from locating the plane. Since 
no communication had been received from B-25 #1316, it wae 
jumed thet it 
wes the plane reported as crashed. ARS C+47 was pre-flighted to transport 
the Army ground party to KELSO but a check of the field conditions there 
deemed it advieable to use a smaller aircraft. 
Of the two CedSs available, 
one belonging to APS was unserviced after a night flights the other, belong- 
ing to AACS, was readied even though a responsible officer of that organ- 
ization wis not present to authorise the flight. 
f 
at KELSO prevented 
takeoff until 0700 PST, 
The ground party, led by CAPT. W. Ly LITTRELL and 
CAPT 
He FORSBERG, consisted of six men ineluding a medical technician 
and a photographer. At 0600 
» the & 
Chief of Police notified AFS 
A passenger of the crashed mirplane wes in his office and had confirmed 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

ATDTO ATM 
A 
PJAIVSPWloIvitALr 
Subjects; Final Mission Report” 
4 Auguet 1947 
The belief that the crash was thet of the unreported B25. The Passenger, 
Sgts Be Le TAFF, of FT. LAWTON, 
TILE, was uninjured, but reported that 
the orew chief, T/Sgte We DU. MATHEWS, was at a farm house near the scone of 
the orash and was injured. 
iSgte TAFF then led an ambulance to Sgte MATHEWS 
who was subsequently taken to @ local hospital, At 0610 PST an attempt 
was made to telephone Sq, 3 at HAMILTON FIELD but no anewer was received; 
however, it was known that HAMILTON APS was aware of the incident and 
would notify Sq. B, 
At 0700 PST Capt. LITTRELL departed in a C-45 for 
KELSO, 
At O745 PST Sq B wae contacted by phone and givon @ flesh report. 
At 0905 PST CAPT LITTRELL phoned and informed that he had placed CAPTAIN 
RG in charge of Army porsonnel proceeding to the scene of the crash. 
Ro nerial search wae necessary ee civiliens in the area knew tho exact 
losation of the crash and had reported finding one 
(1) body in the wreekkge. 
CAPT. LITTRELL prepared to fly Sgt's TAFF and MATHEWS to MCCHORD FIELD 
e 
for medical attention, arriving at 0945 PST. 
The survivors steted that 
: 
they believed neither the pilot nor co-pilot has parachuted from the 
Plane. The onuse of the incident was at this time determined to be a fire 
in the left engine, 
CAPT LITTRELL was inforned by Sgt. TAPF that he 
believed classified documents had been aboard the planes 
CAPT FORSBERG 
wes instructed to take necessary precautions, An anbulance met the plane 
St MCCHORD FI¢LD carrying the two survivors and took thom to the hospital. 
Interrogation revesled that the left engine had omught firs in the power 
section and flames and smoke hed spread to the flight deck almeat imned< 
lately 
The 
crew ohief, MATHEWS, assisted TAFF in attaching his sheet 
pack and TAPY abandoned the plane at an estimated altitude of 10,000 ft 
(thie fact to doubted tut is not considered necessarily relevant). 
ATHENS Aelped the pilot and cospilet attach their chest packs (all per= 
sonnel had boon wearing the harness) and as he left the plenc wis aware that 
the co=pilot wax preparing to follow. The pilot had started to leave and, 
to the best recollection of MA 
S, was partially standing and holding 
the control wheel with his left hand. HATHEW'S statenents indicate that 
proper emergency procedures had been porformed but that the flamee had en- 
veloped the «ntire left side almost immediately. TAPY stated that, because 
of the full moon end goed visibility, he saw MATHEWS leave the plane and 
was able to follow the plane to the ground and that he saw no one else 
bail out. 
The ship was enveloped in flames and was be ginning to fell apart 
before hitting the ground where it exploded and burned about one (1) mile 
from where he, TAPF, landed. 
le lit in a tree, end not knowing how to 
release his parachute of the quick-detachable tind, cut himself loose frou 
the herness with hie peoket knife. Se kicked eud atruggled and eventually 
jumped to the ground, receiving « jolt on impact dut was unable to guess 
how far he hed fallen. He then followed a cow path for an estimated two 
(2) miles to a farm house, arriving after MATHEWS, Meanwhile, as MATHERS 
Cleared the plane he turned and sew the plane strike the ground, explode 
and burne 
Just before or just at the time of impact he saw an object 
afire throw clear of the plane but did not know whether it wes & person 
or part of the planes MATHEWS also lit in a tree, and after freeing himself 
from his harness, fell to the ground where he injured his backs 
He lest 
sonseiousness and on recovering went to the buruing plane, about fifty 
ARAL 
TIADALTEEAT 
Ti LiviriAbl 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

siteeaciamiris, 
| 
Subject: Pinel Mission Repers ° 
4 August 1947 
- 
(60) yards away, Flares were going off and he thought best to leave the 
B0enes 
heard a stream nearby and followed it until he came to a house and 
roused the oceupantse Soon TAFFY arrived at the same house and, being un- 
injured, was driven {nto towne. 
Then he led an ambulance to effect transporta- 
tion of MATHEWS to @ hospital. 
Meanwhile, civilians reached the scene of 
the orash where they found one body. At 0930 PST, a m 
ge from Sq B 
informed that top sgeret material was in the navigators kit and to request 
commanding Offleer CCH 
LD to expedite all available informetion to 
Commanding Offieer BAMIL 
FIELD. Meanwhile, CAPT PORSSERG and four (4) 
enlisted men departed KELSO at 0830 PST for seene 
of the crash. 
‘They were 
INQTOM 
STATE POLICE who kmew the exact location of 
the plane (46°09! + 122043'W), 
‘The ground 
party determined upon arrival 
» that two (2) bodies were in 
the wreckage. Indications led to 
% the ce~pllot wae afire when he left the plane an instant ‘ 
before impact. Th. pilot's r 
ins were found in the wreckage. Pre- 
liminary investigation by CAPT 
G disclosed the planes left wing 
about one hundred twenty-five (428) varda from the widely scattered port- 
plante The lett wing as intact and hed apperently torn 
thoard of the left engine before impact. 
forward portion 
of the wing stub was melted but Ghe rear two thirds indicated thet it had 
ripped leoge from 
the inboard section of the wing. 
The wing leading edge 
was undamaged, The naVigation and landing lights were uibrokem. The 
aileron was undamaged but the flap section was crushed, leading to the 
belief that the wing struck the teil section. From these indications 
it is believed the wing ripped from the airplane just after MATHEWS 
esbandoned the plane. The resulting spin thus prevented the remaining 
erew members from bailing out although the co-pilot may heve been in the 
heteh, A few civilians were in the area when CAPT FORSBERG arrived 
and he took precautions to prevent them from disturbing the wreekage. 
At 1157 PST CAPT LITTRELL flew CAPT RICH, M. C., to KELSO, An ambuli 
dispatched from MOCHORD PIELD, met them at KELSO, and was led to the s 
of the erash by the STATE POLICE. The bodies were recovered and trane- 
ported in the axbulance to w0! 
0 PIELD. CAPT LITTRELL returned to 
MCC 
> FIELD where comping equipment was prepared to be dropred to the 
ground party. CAPT LITTRELL, made a successful drop at dusk by sighting 
on @ signal fire. The ground party set up camp at the wreckage scene to 
sot as guard and to investigate further the following dey. They were 
relieved of responsibility of #11 recovered documents by a CIC agent who 
hed arrived about 18600 PST. 
4 
bs 2 Aug 47— 
The ground party remained at the scene of the crash 
pending official seouring of the incident. No serial activity. 
@e S Aug 47— MOCHORD 
Operations Officer departed at 1000 
PST to investigate the aecident and to relieve CAPT FOKSBARG, who returned 
at 1600 
Incident closeds 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

Personnel in 
jonnel 
timate 
) 
ersonnel 
y eirerart 
« 
Som 
Be 
Cooperation recsived from 
i 
scendies soncerned 
was complete and excellent. 
Captain, 
Jommand 
in 
oRraphs 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

HRALQUARTERS YOURTH AIR FORCE @ 
Office of the Assistant Chief of Staff, A-2 
Intellisense 
Hmeilton Pield, California 
PERIOD COVERED 
$1 July through 
7 August 1947 
CasE CLASSIFICATION 
Incident 
STATUS OF CASE 
ASON FOR INVESTIGATION: 
2#veetigation initiated at the request of Air Defense 
Command. reference itr lig ADC, dtd 7 Jul 47, file DSS3,.5ID, subjs Investigation 
of 
Flying Dieses 
SYROPSISs 
On Sl duly 47, Ure Arnold, Avietion “ditor of the Idaho daily Stateaman, teler 
phoned Lie Grown requesting he return te Tacoma because Arnold believed he had some 
very vitel information en the flying disce 
Lie Srown end Capt. Devidson interviewed a Ure Fred Le Crigman and a Wr. llarold 
Ae Dahl, slong with Capt. Smith of the United Air Lines, and Mre Arnold, at the Wine 
throp Hotel in Yacom, Washington, on the night of 31 July 1947. 
The gummery ef their interrogation and findings was related te Major Sender, 
Public Information Officer, MeChord Field, by Mire Arnold and Captse Smithe Major 
Sander retold the results of the investigetion to thie officer from his notes. 
iis Dahl and Mr. Crianan were net available for interview while this officer 
was in that area, althoush every effort was mede to contact thems 
Further investigation of thie particular incident wes left with Mre Srady, 
Sosident Agent, FEI, Tacoma, Washinztone 
it was epperent from newspaper clippings, telephone calls to this officer, and 
convergations with %ejor Sander, that a United Press correspondent, of the Tacoma 
Times, wee instrumental in keeping this case alive. This officer and Major Sender, 
elthough quoted many times in the press, did not discuss this matter with the press 
during the period of this reporte 
The anonymous mystery caller in Tecoma could possibly be Mire Crigman. 
DIsTRIBUTION 
APPROVED: 
AAP 
ADC 
Ge? 6th Arny 
PSI, Seattle 
1 
POI, San Franeiseo 1 
+r-Fites 
~ 
4 
AUG 30 1947 
SAN FRANOISC( 
W.-D. P.M. G. Form No. 110 
RONILO > 
Ww. 
(This form supersedes 
D., O. C. S. Form No. 19, which 
} 
will not be used upon receipt of this revision) 
eRe 
en eereueeres mers, 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

Ci-R1 Fgport 
* 
" 
; 
DEPTAILSs 
le During the afternoon of 31 duly 47, ure Arnold, Aviation Sditer of the 
ideho Yaily Statesman, telephoned Lt Srown, CIC SubsDetachment Commander at ‘ade 
quarters fourth Air Fores, and stated in eubstance: That he, Arnold, and Capt Gmith 
had arrived in Tacemn to investigate the surported flying diese explosion on e eure 
face craft om 21 dune 47, 
‘This investigation was requested and financed by «@ Ure 
a» Mv Palmer of the Venture Prees, 305 Studie Bldg., 1718 thernen Aveme, 'vansten, 
Tilincie. 
AGEAT*S WOT: See Inclosure 1 and Inclosure 2. fhe signatare to Inelesure 2, Ur. 
Cave Johnson, is that of the editor of the Idaho Daily Stateseane Mire dohason is e 
former Aruy Air Perce officer end from ell indieettions ie a very patriotic American. 
On the reesipt of Inclosure 2 at Seadquarters Fourth Air Yorece, this officer requested 
the San Pranciseo FGl Offies te cheek the Chicago PRI Offices for Re Ae Palmer and the 
Venture Preae, the return enewer, by telephone, was te the effect that the Chieags 
indices of the PRi, the Ghieago Police, and Credit Sureau hed ne record on Re As 
Pelser or the Venture Preas. 
2. Lt Srown and Capt Lavidson arrived at MeCherd Field during the afternoon 
of Sl duly 47— They changed from their uniforms to civilian elothing in the alroraft 
and, on being queried by Operations as to why they desired transportation te Tacoma, 
they replied they were to sake a speech. 
AGENT*S NOPEe 
This wns in compliance with par 4, itr fr tg ADC, Pile 0BS5.810, 
¥ dal 47, aubjs Investigation of Tlhying Pisces 
Aeoording to Wajor George Sander, Publie information Officer, NeThord Field, The 
Tacoma Times received an anonymous telephone call that Arnold and Geith were present 
in the “inthrop Setel for the purpose of conducting an investigation on the fiying 
Giees The Tecome Times checked and found this te be true, mach to Arnold's end Snith's 
curpriges Ut Srown and Capt Devideon did interview Mr. Hareld A, Uehl, Mr. Pred lL. 
Grisman, in « hotel room in the Winthrop Hotel, Tacoma, Washe, in the presence of 
Sr. érnold ong Capt Gmithe If notes were taken of this conversation, they were de« 
stroyed in the Gircreft aceldent.e Mrs Arnold stated to “ajor Jander thet Lt Brown 
obtained from tir. Gehl end Mr. Grisman samples of an unidentified substance thet sere 
identical to those appearing in Inclesures 3 to 7. ‘the samples pictured in Inclesures 
5 to 7 were taken by tr. Arneld from the seme 
box thet Dahl and Criswan offered M4. 
Grown and from which he obtained his samples, %/Sgt Yatthews, Crew Chief on the 
wreeked aircraft, upon being interrogated by this officer, stated that he placed « 
heavy cardbeard carten in the rear compartment of the 8625 that erasheds Se did not 
leck in the box nor heer any comments from 14 Grown 
or Capt Uevideson 
es to ite cone 
tantse 
we 
Se The following sammerises what was related by Mre Arnold and Capt Feith to 
Wajor Sander as te the substance of the interrogation by Lt Brew and Capt Davideens 
That on 21 Jun 47 Mr» Sahl wes preceeding scuth of Maury Ielend in Mire Griauan's 
beste Five flying diecs came down out of the clouds and cireled slowly around the 
bay, Cropping te an estimated elevation ef 600 feet. Theses disos appeared round and 
CONFIDENTIAL 
W.D.,P.M.G. Form No. 110 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

flattened similar to @ deflated automobile iumertube. They were judged by Dahl to 
be Gpproxinately 100 feet across with a 25 foot opening in the center. The outer 
@ige of the object had round portheles and the inner ring hed square windows or 
portholes. The dises wore silent and from hia viewpoint he could see ne moans of 
propaleions one of theas dieses eppeared to falter end waver in the air, another of 
these sforementionsd five Gisos dropped down close te the dise Ghat appeared to 
waver and bumped it, dumping “tons” of the stuff as pictured in inslesure 3 te 7 
on his dont, mocking off the handrail, horn, end generelly dasaging the boat to 
the extent of $200.00, and killing Ushlts dogs 
AGESE*G MOTSs 
Thies officer, in the company of Mejor Sender, vomrded the aforemen= 
tioned best where it wee docked in the tacous harbor on 6 Aug 47% 4 hand rail was 
missing, bat the aren where the hend reil wes previously faetened had been painted 
over with several conte of paint and was oresked by the weathers The deck and reef 
of the eebin was of & very thin senstrusticn and the eabin further hed glass on the 
front and aides. 1% io thia officer's opinion thet if any of the objeste presented 
by ehh as eaxplee of the material dropped by the flying cise kad hit this beat, it 
woald have oeytainly been neoseuary to replage the foredeck ant the eabin roof. 
These two arene were very heavily comted with several esate of saing and hed deep 
weather cracks thet would take evveral seasons to aequires 
Mire Upiamen, who owns the boat and operates a shoreline enber patrol for various 
business firma, evidently visited the area at Yeury Ialend to check fehl’s story. 
Be te supposed 
te have stated that 
he found the saterial that he presented 
to Le 
Brown and Capt Uewldeen in « send pit near where the incident was supposed to have 
eeeurred. “hile he, Criemn, was at the soene of the incident, a Plying dise cane 
out of the elouds and behaved in s similar wammer es the ones previously desoribed. 
AGERT*S HOPE: The witnessing on two oeonsions, in broad daylight, of an object so 
large and clearly visible within several miles of the city ef Tacoma corteinly should 
heve been eesn and reported on by other then Uahl and Criwnene A check was made of 
the newepapers 
on and after 21 dure and no mention could 
be found of a systerious 
object appearing over the Tecom: harbors 
ro Crigzan is supposed to heve sent sexples of the objects that he pleked up in the 
Maury Island sand pit to a friend of bie at the University of Shieage for an analysis 
reperte Yo La reported to have net reesived the enulysis reporte 
AGENT*S WOVE: It te posible that the tire by A, Palmer, reference Inclosurs 1 and 2, 
wight have com eerose this incident tarough the University of Chicages 
The in 
‘tion of Mahl end Crianen by LS Green was completed shout midnight on 
51 say Auguate Lt Brown and Capt Seridson returned to SeCherd fisld and prepared 
for @ wight flight to Samilton Fields the weather was clear with a bright meen 
shining, They departed spproxiwately 0200 hours and crashed at approximately 0230 
hours on 2 August 1947. (See Inclosure 8). 
%» & G August 47, tris cffleer, in the company of Wajor Sender, Uetherd Pield, 
ang re Grady, resident agent, Tacome Feilersl Surenu of Invoatigation, sttenpted te 
-CONFIDENTIAL- 
W.D.,P.M.G. Form No. 110 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

\ 
area 
Gentes either Hre Dahl or “ry Grisman, without success. Capt Smith end ire Arnold 
departed tho fneome aren on 3 August 47, therefore, this officer did not hove the 
Ppportunity of conversing with them directiye 
AGESE*S WORK: A reoord cheek was made by telephone by Mire Brady with the Seattle 
Field office, FRI, for records on Mire Oriewen and Wire Dehis the sheok on Sire Crisman 
wae negative, The Seattle PSI indleos indicated thet « tereld Uahl hed been charged 
with tye ineidente of idiegel wering of the uniform and one with theft of netionel 
property. 1% ould not be determined ot the tine whether Mereld A. Yahi, the eubject 
in question, and Sereld Oehi of the FOI indiews, wae one and the sands 
Se Mis Crigwnn hed indiested te Capt Snith, irneld, eb al, that he was a 
former fighter pilot end held scumiesion se Captain in the Air Reserves 
AgeuTts & 
On & duguet 47, thie officer checked the reeorda of the 406th AAP 
SO(RT) and determined that Fred 4 Criswun wes registered with thet Reserve Unit as 
Captain, Sorin] Yamber Ow7S3951, with residenes at 125 leedleand, Sacom, Machingtony 
Primry 40S 1064 and 1003. 
Im 1062 be wan with the Criminal Investigation Division, 
State of Weohington, and previously had bees en o11 toehnieian with che Union Pacific 
Railwny. Crleswn eatered the servies in 1042 as an enlisted wan and served aa such 
for sevextoon southn, 
In i043 he waa comsiesioned on graduation from flying sehool 
and served a tote] of twenty-nine monthee 
cheek of the Tncoma eity directory was 
wade on Gerold 44 Sehl, which indented his home wae at 8903 8. Gobe ft4, telephone: 
Preeter 7117. Juciness address wee listed as 235 Widdle Yaterwayy telephone: Broade 
wey 773s 
RECOMMENDATION» 
ls 
That mo farther investigation be undertaken on tais apecifie incident by 
Apnay Aly Feree persomel. 
2e That in view of the reported statements by Mire Crianan, thet consideration 
be given te revoke bis Air Neserve commiceion and flying stetus ag an undesirable 
and unreliable officers 
4 Inches 
Photosiat, ltr fr ReAsPalmers 
Photestat, telegran fr Dave Johnsons 
to To Photographs, Unidentified Substances 
Pinal Miesien Report, Air Kessue Servicers 
W.D.,P.M.G. Form No. 110 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

os 
a 
z 
' 
‘ 
. 
VENTURE PRESS 
fe 
) () 
| 
Mr. Kenneth Arnold, 
' 
Boise, Idaho 
(2. 
ta i} ! ( b 
Dear Mr. Arnold: 
= 
. 
4 
t 
Quite obviously you have been ribbed so much you'd like to 
{ 
forget the flying saucers--but I'd sure like to have your 
personal story, your photo, pio of your plane, etc, as I 
| 
asked before. And you won't he made to look silly, because 
| 
there's more to this than the rewspapers and the “experts* 
{ 
have made of it. 
Besides the erticle, I have another propsesition, You seem to 
| 
get around quite a bit, and if you can maka a trip to Tacome, 
Washington at 611 feasible, I'd be willing to pay expenses 
Plus @ nice amount to make it worth your while. 
I'a want you to see Mr. Harold A. Dahl, P. O. Box 154, Fern 
} 
Hill Station, Tacoma, and Mr. Fred Le Crisman, owner of the 
Tacoma Harbor Patrol, Inc. 
Dahl, and two other seamen, on a 
patrol near Murry Island, off Tacoma, saw six discs, one in 
trouble, witnessed an explosion, saw falling stuff which 
/ 
smashed their wheelhouse end searchlight snd lended on the 
| 
beach, 
They sent me samples which Chicago U has failed to 
| 
analyze. I want a picture of the beach and the stuff that 
landed there (about twenty tons, they said). And I want 
somebody who'll get the trath, to find out if these boys are 
} 
on the up and up. You could do that. 
I hope you will. 
If 
| 
agreeable, please write and perhaps we can telk business. 
Fal 
i 
I think you'd like to prove this thing toog 
Anyway, I still wnt that article! 
Sincerely yours, 
Re A Palmer 
: 
| 
| 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

WESTERN 
WESTERN 
UNION 
UNION 
WESTERN 
UNION 
q 
WuA41 PD 
: 
) 
BOISE IDA JULY 29 1947 255P 
LT FRANK M BROWN, A-2 (RPT A=2) 
| 
OFFICE 4TH AIRFORCE HAMILTON FIELD CALIF 
VENTURE PRESS 305 STUDIO BLDG 1718 SHERMAN AVE EVANSTON ILL, RA 
PALMER. SENT ARNOLD $200 TO GO TO TACOMA TO INVESTIGATE FLYING 
DISC REPORT THERE. SUGGEST THIS OUT OF LINE FOR PRESENT PUBLIC 
INTEREST IN STORY AND BELIEVE-AS | SUGGESTED ON YOUR VISIT HERE 
VENTURE PRESS SHOULD BE CHECKED 
DAVE JOHNSON 
305 1718 $200 
308P 


--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---

BORDA 
NANI OTE 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

TAY 
* 
% 
TT 
TDy 
SEALE E EP aae 


--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---

Office Memo wild + UNITED Sila... +OVERNMENT 
| 
\ 
To 
: 
Directors FB, 
1-29-47 y 
FROM 
: 
y 
SUBJECT: 
METAL FRAGMENTS ‘ORSERVED AT WEST RINDGE, NEW HAMPSHIRE, JULY 7, 1947 
SECURITY MATTER (X' 
Reference is made to Boston teletype to the Bureau dated July 18, 1947. 
Dean John M. Bunker, the original informant, has advised that a spectographic 
examination has been completed of the metal particles referred to. They were 
determined to be of ordinary cast iron which had been subjected to a very 
high degree of heat, The heat caused scales to be formed on the cast iron 
which were originally thought to be of some metallic alloy. 
The scientist examining the particles concluded that if they had come through 
the air from any great altitude in as small pieces as they were found then 
most of the heat would have been taken from them by the time they reached 
the ground and fires would not have resulted, It is noted they landed 
approximately 700 feet from a railroad track and inquiries were conducted by 
MIT to determine whether or not the particles could have been originally a 
part of a liner in a smoke stack or some other part of the steam engine, 
These 
inquiries resulted in positive information that the particles did not come from 
a train or locomotive, Measurements of the four pieces examined revealed 
that they had most likely been originally all part of one hollow eylinder, 
eight inches in diameter and three sixteenths of an inch in thickness, It 
was felt that ono piece falling from a great height would have still retained 
a good part of its heat and probably would have smashed when it hit the ground. 
A scientist, whom Yean Bunker did not identify by name, recalled that cast 
iron cylinders of similar measurements had been used in New Mexico on 
research work on a guided missile project. However, this unidentified scientist 
id 
not so conclude to the exclusion of all other possibilities, 
'e! 
TF. 
INPRQU 
I eA i eceresticg to note that the examination st MIT was actually conducted 
(6)(7(0) 
who furnished the Boston Office with an informal report similar 
in all major details to that supplied by Dean Bunker above, The men at MIT ot 
are gathering through friends all additional pieces of the original oyli: 
sf 
available, These will be turned over to the Soston Office. No further, 
examination is being conducted by MIT and no effort is being made + 
reconstruct the original cylinder, 
2 
Unless advised to the contrary by August 15, 1947 the Boston Office will 
destroy these specimens, In the interim they will be transmitted to the 
Bureau on specific Bureau instructions, 
/ a4 ie a 
Lig - 
{U% 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

(b) (7)(D) 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

It is noted that the original 4oston teletype refleoted that this inquiry 
was being treated as “seoret" matter at MIT. (b)(7)(D) 
has advised that 
the comparatively small number of research scientists at MIT during the summer 
are all cognizent of the incident and the results of the research. However, 
no publicity has been given and it is not anticipated that any will result. 
The Bureau's interest is not known to the scientists at MIT. 
‘There has been 
no speculation that a guided missile originating in a foreign land landed 
in New Hampshire. 
As indicated above, unless the Bureau requests specifically further investigative 
action, this case is being closed in the Boston Office. 
BSG:md 
100-20698 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

Py 
") 
Was 
FBI BUTTE 
8-15-47 
5-45 PM 
| 
vew 
RECTOR, FBI 
URGENT 
va 
FLYING DISCS. 
ON INSTANT DATE A. CAURIE OF TWIN FALLS, IDAHO, Hy We 
INFORMED LOCAL NEWSPAPER THAT COMMUNITY THAT AT ONE PM ON ine. & 
LAST, AUGUST THIRTEEN, HE AND TWO SONS BILLIE, AGE TEN, KEITH, APHRK 
AGE EIGHT, SAW AN OBJECT NINE MILES NORTHWEST OF TWIN FALLS, RE@= 
SEMBLING FLYING DISC. 
URIE STATED THIS OBJECT WAS PROCEEDING @MXX 
DOWN SALMON RIVER AT TERRIFIC SPEED ESTIMATED BY HIM AT ONE THOUSAND 
MILES PER HOUR. 
URIE AND SONS DESCRIBED OBJECT TO NEWSPAPERS AS 
TWENTY FEET LONG, TEN FEET WIDE AND TEN FEET THICK, LIGHT SKY BLUE 
IN COLOR AND ALSO OBSERVED FLAMES EMANATING FROM SIDES OF OBJECT. 
AT TIME URIE AND SONS SAW OBJECT THEY ALL HEARD LOUD SWISH WHEN 
OBJECT DISAPPEARED FRIM SIGHT. 
CURRENT EFFORTS BEING MADE TO INTER- 
VIEW URIE AND SONS PURSUANT TO BUREAU BULLETIN FORTY TWO, SUB DIVISION 
B, DATED JULY THIRTY NINETEEN FORTY SEVEN, 
BUREAU bag ay PROMPTLY | 
AND FULLY INFORMED OF ALL PERTINENT DEVELOPMENTS. 
BANISTER 
END 
PLS ACK AND HOLD 
= 
I] 
7-48 PM OK FBI WA Bu 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

uynoas, WN8ALS 
yagau 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

' 
STANDARD WORM NO, 64 
, ‘Ofte Men bd Aum +» UNITED 
| ‘ GOVERNMENT » 
Too: 
The Director 
DATE: August ly¢g 1917 
FROM 
: 
Mr. D. M. Ladd 
SUBJECT: ~ 
DISCS 
Se 
In connection with your request to be advised as to the facts 
concerning newspaper reports of flying discs in the Portland area and the 
reported conference of army officials in Portland concerning flying dises,#. 
the Portland Office has advised that Leaveritt G. Richards, aviati 
editor of the. "Oregonian," has stated that Captain Willian L, 
and Lieutenant Frank } 
own of the Fourth AAF Headquarters, San Francisco, 
were in Portland on July 
27, 197. While in Portland they interviewed Dick 
“Rankin, an experienced pilot, who had reported that he observed, on June 1h, 
a formation of ten flying discs over Bakersfield, California. 
Richards added 
hat Davidson and Brown had also interviewed the following four experienced 
pilots who were among the first,to 
ort seeing discs, KennethXirnold, businessman 
from Boise, Idaho; Captain E. J,Smith, a co-pilot; RalpbStevens, United Airlines 
and DaveéxJohnson, aviation editor, Idaho"Statesman." In order to determine the 
purpose of these interviews Richards contacted 
Major General Twining of 
Wright Field, 
Ohio, and from him gained the impression that the AAF instituted this investigation 
to wash out the disc reports since they are definitely not of AAF origin. 
On Friday, August 1, the plane in which AAF investigators, Captain 
Davidson and Lieutenant Brown, were flying, crashed at Kelso, Washington and both 
were killed. 
The wreckage was screened by AAF Intelligence from McChord Field. 
The "Tacoma News Tribune" and through them the United Press put out a story that 
the plane was carrying parts of a dise which had struck a boat owned by Harold 
Dahl and Fred Chrisman. It has also been inferred that this plane was sabotaged 
to prevent these disc parts from being examined. 
STATUS 
Investigation by the Bureau has reflected that this plane was definitely 
not carrying parts of a disc and there appears to be no substantiation of a sabotage 
charge. 
For your further information there is attached a blind memorandum setting 
forth in more detail the results of the investigation surrounding the above plane 
crash. 
No further inquiry is being made in this matter. 
Air Force Intelligence has been advised of the results of our investi- 
gation. 
RGF:mjp 
COPIES DESTROYED 
270 NOV 18 1904 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

2511sar 30 ‘1g3¢ $n 
lag 
ARYI~G3A1R9 
394 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

August 1), 19)7 
FLYING DISCS 
The "Tacoma News Tribune" and through them the United Press put out 
a story that an army plane which was allegedly carrying parts of a disc which 
had struck a boat owned by Harold Dahl and Fred Chrisman had crashed on August 
1, 1917, killing two Air Force Intelligence officers who were interviewing 
persons who were alleged to have seen flying discs. 
Harold A. Dahl and Fred Chrisman, when interviewed by Bureau Agents, 
advised in a signed statement on August 7, 19:7, that in the early part of June, 
197, they picked up some strange rock formations from a gravel pit on Mauri 
Island, 
ington. They sent a cigar box of these formations to one Ray Palmer, 
editor of the Venture magazine in Evanston, Illinois and also editor of the 
Fantasy magazine in Chicago, Illinois. According to them they requested Palmer 
to make only a chemical analysis of the rock formations. 
Palmer then wrote 
asking for additional samples stating he had been unable to analyze the material. 
Dahl and Chrisman remarked that a few days after the flying 
disc stories appeared 
during the latter part of June, Palmer contacted them by telephone saying he would 
pay for an exclusive story if the materials they had sent him were fragments of 
a flying disc. Dahl said he wrote Palmer a letter in which he represented the 
material as being a part of a flying disc, and both Dahl and Chrisman admitted 
that this statement was entirely false. 
Dahl and Chrisman then received a call from one Kenneth Arnold of 
Boise, Idaho who requested them 
to meet him at the Winthrop Hotel in Tacoma on 
July 31, 1947. According to them Arnold called in army intelligence officers 
from Hamilton Field, California and one Captain Emil H. Smith of United Airlines 
of Seattle, Washington to attend this meeting. Dahl and Chrisman maintained 
they told the intelligence officers Captain Davidson, Lieutenant Brown, Kenneth 
Arnold and Emil H. Smith exactly how they got the rock formations and that they 
had no connection with any flying discs. Dahl and Chrisman stated that they then 
ed some of the rock formation to the intelligence officers as samples. 
Captain Davidson and Lieutenant Brown left Tacoma, Washington in a B-25 
to return to Hamilton Field, California about 2:30 A.M. August 1, 1947, and were 
killed when their plane crashed at Kelso, Washington, after the left engine 
burned out an exhaust stack which in turn caught the left wing on fire which caused 
it to break off. 
The crew chief and each officer parachuted to safety. 
Ernie Vogel, an Associated Press wireman at Tacoma advised that two or 
three days after the flying disc story started he contacted Dahl to check the story 
COPIES DESTROYED 
270 NOV 18 1964 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

that the 
Seattle Post-Intelligencer had received from the Fire Chief at 
Harbor, Washington, to the effect that Dahl had some flying disc fragments. 
At this time Dahl admitted to Vogel that the entire story was false. 
Relative to Arnold, Dahl and Chrisman stated that he was paid by 
Ray Palmer of the Fantasy magazine and possiblg the Boise "Statesman! 
to cone 
to Tacoma and obtain a story from them regarding the flying disc fragments. 
On July 31 and August 1, a total of five anonymous calls were 
received by a Tacoma Times reporter and the United Press Wireman at Tacoma 
iving information regarding the meeting at the 
Winthrop Hotel over the disc 
ragments and stating that the B-25 had been shot down or sabotaged which 
killed Captain Davidson and Lieutenant Brown, inferring that this was done 
because the intelligence officers were carrying disc fragments in their plane. 
Dahl and Chrisman stated that these calls could only 
have come from 
hemselves, Arnold or Smith, who, they stated, had a friend on the Chicago 
Times and was possibly selling the 
story to the Chicago Times through this 
friend. Dahl and Chrisman denied making these calls. 
Smith, upon interview, stated that reporter Lantz of the Tacom: 
Times and Morello of the United Press office in Tacoma had informed him that 
Arnold had several anonymous calls and from the accuracy of the information 
transmitted Smith believes they were made by either Dahl or Chrisman. 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

Federal Gureau of Inuestigah 
United States Acpartment of Justice 
Us 
S. 
rt House 
fashington 
3, 1947 
2 
ited 
's story. 
Idaho, who 
wa: 
st to report 
PALMER had previously 1 
a 
contract for 
disc, to come to Tacc 
1 
heck 
the 
story, a5. 
ROLD DAHL. 
z 
NOLD 
ca 
ma 
ington July 
DEI 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

August 19, 1947 
this meeting. 
i 
H 
ARNOLD, Captain EMIL J. SMITH , FRED 
L,; Captain DA 
N and Lieutenant 
of 
Army Ae? Intellig tice from 
ilton Field, California, all met in 
ARNOLD's: room at various times during 
the afternoon and evening of July 31, 1947.and discussed the flyi 
be 
as. related by 
CR 
and DAHL. The Army Intelligence Officers, Captain 
AVIDSON and Lieutenant 
y left about 2:00 
the morning of August 1, 
foe to, return to Hamilton Field, California for Air Force Day in a B-25-and 
were carrying some of the reported disc fragments, 
The left engine on the 
B-25 burned an exhaust stack which in turn caught the left wing afire, the 
wing subsequently breaking off and tearing off the tail. 
The B-25 crashed, 
killing Captain DAVIDSON and Lieutenant BRO; 
However, the Crew Chief and 
a hitchshiker parachuted to safety. Intelligence Officers Sum McChord Field, 
Washington advised there was no indication of any sabotage. The plane crashed 
at Kelso, Washington approximately 2:50 A. M, August 1, 1947. 
Five anonymous calls were received by a reporter, Tacoma 
Times, and the United Press Wireman, Tacoma, between 11:30 A. M., July 31, 1947 
and 5:30 P, M., 
August: 2, 1947. The first call was to a Tacoma Times reporter 
approximately 11:30 A. M., July 31, in which the caller stated that there was 
a meeting taking place at that time in room 502 of the Winthrop Hotel concerning 
the disc fragments found on’Maury Island. The second call was. received between 
11:00 
A, M. and 12:00 noon, 
August 1, 1947:by the Tacona Times reporter in 
which the caller advised t. 
at that moment a big meeting was taking place 
in ARNOLD's. room number 502, 
nthrop Hotel; that the B-25 which crashed was 
carrying dise fragments and that McChord Field officials had stated it was 
shot down or sabotaged. The third call was recéived Friday, August 1, 1947 
at 5:30 P. M. by the United Press Wireman, Tacoma, in which the. caller stated 
that the B-25 which crashed at Kelso, 
Washington was carrying flying disc 
fragments and that the dead officers were Captain DAVIDSON and Lieutenant 
ROW, A-2 Intelligence ‘Officers at “amilton Field, California. This call 
was prior to the release of the dead officers' names by Army authorities and 
the caller indicated that 
when the names were released, it-would verify the 
information he was furnishing was correct.’ 
The fourth phone call was received 
proximately 6:45 
P. M., Friday, August 1 by the United Press Wireman in 
wh hich call the caller st. tated the B-25 was definiteyshot down and. that if he 
contacted Army Intelligence officers, they would not. deny it. 
The fifth phone 
call was Ps 
by the United Press Wireman, Tacoma, 
$230: PoM. 
ust 2, 
1947 at. wk 
time the eall er stated the B25 was shot id from 
the air with 
a 20 msm. cannon; t 
larine plane found’ recently on Mt. 
Rainier had also 
ot down and that 
ptain SMITH would be taken to Wright Field Tuesday 
morning. — When. the Army. 
horities released the 
es of the dead Intelligence 
officers 
h verified.t 
information as given by the 
anonymous caller, the 
1 
gust <- 
1947 and carried several articles 
thereafter infer: 
le 
be 
, 
because of 
the fact that it 
i 
‘is 
ts 
AHL 
and 
AN 
2 admitted 
that 
the material 
to 
F 
PALMER had no connection. 
with any 
i 
igned statement 
to that effect which are being 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

herein. DAHL and CR RISM AN deny. 
e 
that 
ey 
lly started 
rt in the: 
story. 
Un 
\irlines pilot, 
ci ISMAN on July 31, 1947, both ‘related their 
r 
se fragment story. 
Information gathered would indicate that 
the. anonymous phor ne calls were possibly made by 
D. CRISMAN in order to build 
ig disc puory: to the point pmtiere _ they could make a profitable sale 
No facts have 
been developed 
ade these calls, However, from all 
taper ageren area 
it Aa ars 
he is probably the most likely to 
ave. made the anonymous calls. 
The detailed interviews of the persons contac- 
oe in regard to this flying dise story are being set out below, 
The following investigation 
conducted by Special Agent 
DAVID A. MacCULLOCH at Tacoma, 
Washington on August 6, 7, 1947: 
E 
L, Associated Press 
“ireman, Tacoma, 
Washington, 
advised tl 
in the early part of June, 1947 he was‘ requested by uae Seattle 
Post Intelligencer to 
in 
a story which he was informed had been obtained 
from the Fire Chief at 
ashington. 
The story was supposed to have 
nated with F 
CI 
GEL stated that the story was to the effect 
pee 
near Maury Island, saw five or six 
ir, VOGEL stated that he went 
to the home of 
E 
rth Gove; Tacoma, Washington to check with 
him on this flying dise story. He stated that as best he could recall, this 
was just a few days after the first flying disc stories had appeared in the paper 
and was on a Sunday evening, He believed it was the early part of June. 
He 
stated that DAHL took him in the kitchen and 
proceeded to talk about this flying 
disc story in low muffled tones. 
He stated that DAHL acted rather suspicious 
and the t shortly his wife came into the kitchen andy 
in a considerable rage, 
to admit that the entire story was a plain fantasy which he had 
samed up. 
He stated that after his wife told DAHL to admit the entire story 
was false, that DAHL then admitted 
that there was nothing 
whatever to the story 
and it was an entire hoax. VOGEL stated that in view 
the enr: 
of DAHL's wife, he immediately left and Rencened to the OP print 
4 
I 
that. the entire story wa 
eee and the ase should 
3 
He further ‘stated. that h 
a mental case and 
tha 
as a news story. 
VOGEL a 
that since “that tine he had received repeated 
requests from the Boise | Sbah Gant reques 
i 
ion as to the flying disc 
stories reportedly ori 
ISMAN 
TARO. 
EL stated 
ver, in} 
3 
=} 
n him to 
news story a 
that 
t 
dly 
1 
Statesman that 
N was a complete fabri- 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

August.19, 1947 
cation and should be inno way, carried as 4 news story and refused to furnish 
any information regarding these reports. 
He further stated that he advised 
the Boise Statesman shortly before, or at the time 
ETH 
vi 
to come to Tacoma to check on the flying disc stories with Dé 
and, CRISMAN 
that ARNOLD should not come as the entire story. was a hoax. 
wing information was obtained from apttan Zy 
4513 South. 7th, Tacor 
q 
igton, Proctor 8416, a rpporter for the T 
Times: 
It was the Tacoma Ti 
is 
and- subsequent stories intim: 
B 
which crashed at 
hington on the early morni 
A 
botaged or shot 
s¢. of the fact that it. car: 
J 
Ss 
NTZ 
that on 
ursday,, July 31, at apr 
€ 
] 
A 
ed an anonymous 
phone call in which 
Z 
RN 
and Army Intelligence 
fficers were meeti 
i 
linthrop Hotel to check on the flying 
dise story from 
which fra; ante were obt ned on Maury Island, LANTZ stated he 
turned around to speak to his’ editor and when he picked 
hone again the 
vi 
He stated that the caller asked for Bl 
a reporter 
5 who was out at the time of the call, 
‘He. stated that BURT 
i 
NOLD at room 502 in the Winthrop Hotel and 
advised by 
ARNOLD that he could furnish no information as he was there on a Government 
mission. LANTZ stated that on Friday 
ust 1, between 11:00 A. M. 
and noon, 
he received another phone call for BUR’ 
i in which the anonymous caller 
stated that he 
might have sone information for him, 
LANTZ 
asked the caller if 
he was not the same party that had called the previous date and he said yes. 
The caller then related that at that moment there was a big meeting in progress 
in ARNOLD's room, 502, in the Winthrop Hotel; that the. B-25 which crashed that 
morning in Kelso was carrying flying disc fragments from California and that 
MeChord Field officials had stated the plane was sabotaged or shot down, The 
caller then hung up after making some statement to the effect that he was a 
switchboard operator. 
LANTZ stated that he went to the Winthrop Hotel on Friday 
about noon and found. tk 
there was no male operator on duty. He sta 
he then 
went to. room 502 and ARNOLD answered the door and that Captain EMIL J. 
SMITH, 
United Airlines pilot, was on the phone. LANTZ stated that he heard 
TH make 
a statement to the effect that the information must be very strictly confidential, 
He stated that there were one or two others in the room besides SMITH and ARNOLD, 
but that he could not identify them. He stated that 
ARNOLD told him he could 
mae no statement and that he had attempted to check the story with various people 
on Maury Island with negative results. He stated that about 3:30 P. M., Friday, 
he wrote a story regarding the mysterious informant and called ARNOLD at his 
hotel room, stating that he had written thj 
Beery and that ARNOLD had better 
check it. 
He stated that he talked to 
2RELLO, the United Press Wireman, 
Tacoma, who advised that the story sounde fantastic. 
LANTZ 
stated that about 
5:30 P. M., Friday, 
August 1, an anofiymous caller called 
MORRELLO, the 
alk 
a 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

August. 19, 1947 
United Press Wireman, stating that Captain DAVIDSON and Lieutenant BROWN 
were the Intelligence officers that. were killed in the crash of the 
that civilians and the sheriff had been kept away from the wreckage v 
Army guarding it. He stated the anonymous caller then said that the names 
had not been released yet by the Army and that this would verify his statements, 
PAUL LANTZ stated that the following morning, Saturday, August 2, the Army 
verified that the officers killed were Captain DAVIDSON and Lieutenant BROWN 
and two days later verified that they were Army Intelligence officers. LANTZ 
stated that the anonymous caller again later contacted TED MORRELLO, calling 
him by that name, and at this time stated he did not 
call the Tacoma News 
Tribune or the Associated Press and denied calling PAUL 
LANTZ or BURT McMURTIE. 
In this call the anonymous caller stated that, "Don't think I'm doing this for 
you." He then asked if the story had been put.on the wire and when MORRELLO 
said yes, the caller stated, "We want this to get back to: New Jersey." The 
caller further stated that the B-25 was shot down by a 20 m.m. cannon and that 
the marine plane which was recently found wrecked on the side of Mt, Rainier, 
having been missing for several months, had also been shot down. The caller 
stated to M 
he should get in touch with a flyer named iM 
United Airlines who, he stated, was with Captain SMITH when they were shot at 
over Montana, The caller then stated, "I'll see you Tuesday. 
I'm’g 
San Francisco." LANCE stated that he had checked with Captain MMIL § 
United Airlines who denied knowing 
any pilot by the name of MORGAN; denied 
ever having flown over Montana, LANTZ stated that. MORRBILO received another 
anonymous call in which the caller stated that SMITH would be sent to. Yright 
Field on Tuesday and that Saturday one of the men who found fragments of the 
flying disc was to be flown to Alaska, 
“LAN 
tated that in view of the fact 
that the information as to the Intell: 
ce, officers on the 
had’ been: as 
é 
bsequently been verified by the Army, 
he story 
5 
released that the B-25 was carrying disc fragments returning to 
Hamilton Field, California and furnishing the inference that 
the plane had.been 
sabotaged or shot down. 
LANTZ stated that about 8:00 P, 
M. on Sunday, August 3, 
he contacted ¢ 
TH at his home, 3027 West Laurelhurst Drive, 
Seattle at which time SMITH stated he had not given any story out to the Post 
Intelligencer at Seattle; stated that he had gotten a telegram to call a number 
in Boise 
d when he called and found out it-was the Boise Statesman, he had 
hung up. 
He stated that the Boise Statesman then contacted him, at which time 
he admitted’ he had. seen the disc fragments, but that he did not take any of 
This time SMITH informed LANTZ that he had been with Major GEORGE 
ablic Relations Officer from McChord Field, all afternoon until about 
SMITH informed LANTZ that he had told the Army authorities every- 
1 
I 
w about the flying disc fragments story from the 
time that 
WOLD left Boise, Idaho and he had left Seattle, Washington. 
This time 
admitted that there were some of the supposed disc fragments 
in ARNOLD's room at the Winthrop Hotel and that | 
AN and DAHL 
had been in 
the room Thursday afternoon, On Monday PAUL LANTZ stated that he called 
HAROID DAHL who advised that if this were not used in the paper, he and FRED 
= bie 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

August. 19, 1947 
N would see him after lunch, LANTZ stated that about noon DAHL and 
N contacted him at which time DAHL stated that he and his son had been 
exploring a gravel pit on Maury Island and found some strange rock formations. 
He stated they picked up some of these samples and that FRED CRIS. 
saw them and they went back over to Maury Island at which time additional 
samples were obtained and that CRISMAN sent these to a friend of his at the 
University of Chicago to have analyzed, They stated that they received a 
report and that apparently this friend had asked a newpaperman to find out 
where the rock formations were obtained. CRISMAN and DAHL told LANTZ that 
sometime after the first flying disc story had appeared, they received a tele- 
gram from Trans-Ocean Press from Chicago wanting infomation on the flying 
Chad fragments. FRED CRISMAN stated that they had at no time indicated-the 
ions’ were a part of a flying disc and that Captain piryert ma and 
1 
IOLD were not. interested in the rock formations and they denied 
giving them to SMITH and 
ARNOLD, 
TED MORRELLO, a United Press Wireman, Tacoma, Washington 
furnished substantially the same information that was obtained from, PAUL LANTZ, 
the Tacoma Timés.reporter, regarding the anonymous phone calls which he had 
received, 
He stated further that the first call he: received was on Friday, 
August 1, at around 5:30 P. M.. 
At this time the caller stated that the B-25 
which crashed at Kelso, Washington was carrying disc fragments and that the 
two officers killed were Captain DAVID. 
and Lieutenant BROWN, officers with 
Army A#2 Intelligence at Hamilton Field and that the fragments were top secret 
material. He stated the caller indicated that when the Army released the names 
of the dead officers it would verify that the information he was furnishing was 
correct, 
LLO stated that: the second call he received at’ approximately 
6:45 P. 
Ms Friday, August 1 at which time the caller’stated that the B=25 was 
definitely shot down and that 
if he contacted Amy Intelligence A=2, the man 
in charge would not deny it. MORRELLO stated he thought the man said to con- 
tact Colonel GUYS, but it was found out it was.Colonel GREGG who was in charge 
of Army Intelligence A-2. 
The caller further stated that the Sheriff's Office 
had been kept away from the crash and that’ no civilians had been allowed near 
the plane. 
MORRELLO stated the third call he received at 5:30 P. M., August 2, 
E 
that this time the 
caller stated that one of the men who had been conferring 
with Captain SMITH and 
NETH: ARNOLD 
¥ 
aken to Alaska that day. 
The caller 
further stated that’ the B-25 was sh ot 
n from the air with a 20 mem. cannon; 
that the Marine plane found recently on 
Mt, Rainier had also been shot down; 
that Captain SMITH would be taken to Wright 
Field Tuesday morn 
and that :a 
ted. Airlines p 
by 
t 
ame of MORG 
w 
with Captain 
TH: when they 
shot at over } 
The 
stated ‘he was leaving for 
San Francisco 
would. be: back 
PAUL LANTZ and TED M 
ILO both stated that they had made 
e effort to* question the anonymous caller to obtain his identity 
a 
seless and that if they started questioning him he would 
fas 
dee 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

Cy 
ee 
August 19, 1917 
refuse to furnish any further information, 
On 
August 5, 1947 Special A 
contactéd in the re 
t.agency. office, Taco. 
S Weabtngton by 
At this time CRIS 
ked if the 
Seattle Office was investig: 
of the B-25 and he was informed t 
no investigation was being conducted by 
the Seattle Office. 
‘CRISI 
at t 
time 
related in a rambling story that he 
had picked up some strange rock formations which he had forwarded to a friend 
of his in the University of Chicago to have amalyzed and that later, in some 
manner unknown to him, these rock formations had been reported as being frag- 
ments of a fly 
i 
viewed at the Tacoma. resi 
ney office, 
denied any knowledge of 
Ww 
ock formations which they hi: 
3 
have alalyzed became connected with the flying disc stories. 
Both denied 
making any statement to anyone that these rock formations were portions of a 
disc fragment. 
It was apparent from the start of the interview that DAHL and 
CRISh 
were not telling their complete and true connection with the flying 
disc, story. They refused to give any definite information as to what they said 
or had done which caused them to become involved in a flying disc story, 
gave evasive answers and repeatedly stated that they had nothing to do wi 
and were at a loss to understand how they became connected with the f 
story. 
fter consi 
able questioning they stated that in the early part of 
Jun 
ey sent to RAY 
PALMER of + 
Ziff-Davis Publishing Company which published 
t 
tasy magazine in Chicago and the Venture magazine in Bvanston, Illinois, 
some rock formations which they had found on Maury Island. They stated they 
sent these formations, asking PAIMER to have them analyzed. They stated that 
later PAIMER wrote and asked for more samples, advising, he had failed to analyze 
the samples. 
RISMAN 
and DAHL stated they have never sent any additional samples 
and one the next they heard regarding the rock formations which they had sent 
PAIMBR 
was when he called HAROLD DAHL and asked if the rock formations could 
have come from a flying disc. DAHL stated. .he made some remark that they possibly 
could have come from a flying dise and that he immediately sat down and wrote 
a letter to PALMER, which was in the latter part of June in which he stated 
the material could have been portions of a flying disc. 
AHL claimed that he 
thought he told PAIMER over the phone something about being in his boat when 
he obtained these rock formations, but stated he could not recall what he had 
itten to PALMER and claimed that he passed the whole thing off as a joke, 
J’and DAHL were questioned at length in an attempt to obtain specific 
information as to exactly what each one had done with regard to the rock forma- 
tions. However, éach stated that the only thing they had done was tell RAY PA 
the formations could have come from a ‘flying disc in view of the fact it appeared 
‘that's what he wanted them to say", 
No definite information: could be obtained 
from either DAHL or CRISMAN as to what each specifically had done to start the 
flying dise story. 
The signed statement which was obtained from CRISMAN and 
= 6An 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

August 19, 1947 
i in:which they admitted the rock formations had no connection with 
ng discs is being forwarded:to the Bureau herewith. The statement 
ns no information of value and therefore is’not being set forth herein. 
the meeting which was held in thet inthrop Hotel 
on Thursday, July 31, 
CRIS 
and 
DAHL a 
pare t they. both met KENNETH ARNOLD 
there about 1:00 
P. 
M. 
ry 
OP. M. and that CRISMAN tobi ARNOLD ‘to Beryl fener at Tacoma and 
OLD flew his plane to Seattle 
where he ‘picked up Captain 
EMIL SMITH, 
CRIS-~ 
2 
and SMITH at Berry's Airport about 5:00 
1 
ROLD DAHL ‘came to 
VOLD's room about 7:00 
P. M. 
CRIGMAN 
stated that he 
and 
1 left about 
8:30:P. M. when he drove 
SMITH to. Seattle 
to get his car and that DAHL went home at this time. 
CRISMAN stated they 
returned about 11:30 P, M. 
whi 
ny Intelligence officers were 
in ARNOLD's room and that CRI} 
By 
d 
t. 
He stated that he 
returned to ARNOLD's room Friday afternoon for 
ximately one-half hour 
from 2:30 to 3:00 
at 
wh Lye time retake 
TH were still there and 
neither seemed to be 
AE 
i 
LD' s: room on Friday, 
August 1. 
The best tt 
took place in ARNOLD's 
m 
was 
to the eff 
t 
Mn 
talk was about 
f’ 
hat no one 
“ 
interested 
> rock for 
ons and that 
ay flying 
Ce 
ictures of the place 
rock for 
1s 
were obtained and that the Amy Intelligence: officers did not 
appear to be 
interested in any manner whatever, 
Washington and. FRED. 
( 
“ 
working with him buying timber 
They have also been as 
Harbor 
Patrol 
As 
iation at* Tacor 
shingion' which fur 
hes tenet and police pro= 
tection to parts of the t 
ich are not patrolled by Tacoma police 
or Sheriff's officers. FRED CRIS 
resides at 125 
Woodland, Tacoma, 
ington, 
Amy serial number 0-758-951. During the war he was a pilot and it is believed 
presently holds a, Reserve Officer's commission as a Captain. 
Regarding the B=25 which crashed, killing Captain DAVIDSON 
and Lieutenant BROWN of the 4th Aire Forces, Captain ROBERT G, BJORNING, A-2 
Officer, Mc Chord Field, advised that this investigation of the crash reflected 
ad burned out on the left engine which in turn caught the 
and that when the left wing broke off, it also broke off the 
The plane at the time of the crash was carrying Captain DAVIDSON, 
Lieutenant BROWN, the Riek Oe 
and a man as Crew. Chief to take care of the 
airplane.’ 
The Crew Chief and the hitebehiker: parachuted to safety, but Captain 
DAVIDSON and tfagtenant BROWN were killed. He stated that their investigation 
reflected no indication of any sabotage whatever, 
A check of the records of the Winthrop Hotel at Tacoma, 
ington revealed that KE 
NOLD; giving his address as Route #1, Mount- 
rive, Boise, Idaho rented room 502 from July 30 at 7243 P.M. until 
ie de 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

August 19, 1947 
A record of the*phone calls made from room 502 during this period 
we 
y Miss 8! 
+. 
This record reveals that KE 
1- ARNOLD on 
duly 31 called P ALMER at AN-5200,. Evanston, Illinois, collect. 
On the same 
date called Lieutenant BR 
at 5800 Hamilton Field, California, collect, 
LD also called 0109-5 in Boise, Idaho on July 31. On August 1 ARNOLD called 
1936, Portland; 
Pé 
at Dearborn 5200, Chicago; and: 
SMITH called RODDY 
at Dearborn 2323 at Chicago. Both Chicago calls were collect. 
The remainder 
of the. calls appear to be personal calls and are not being set out. A record 
of the phone calls made are being retained as an exhibit in the Seattle Office, 
The following information was obtained by Special Agent 
PIERRE H, LEVEC in interview on August 12, 
J 6) 
SM 
3027 West Laurehurst Drive, United 
rlines pilot: Tt should be noted that 
Captain SMITH has previously received publicity for having supposedly seen 
flying 
discs or similar objects on July 4, last while on a routine United Air— 
lines flight out of Boise, Idaho in.company with 
his co-pilot R eH eT 
concerning this incident. 
Captain SMITH states that they took off from Boise, 
Idaho at 8:12 P. M.-and’ headed Northwest at 300 degrees and while still climbing 
at 8,000 feet, co-pilot 
iS called his attention to some objects in the 
sky ahead of them about ten degrees left which neither one could identify. 
SMITH states that he called a CAA radio operator at Ontario, Oregon and reques- 
ted him to step outside his rac 
shack 
i see if he could see any of these 
objects overhead, The CAA radio operator replied in the negative. 
Captain § 
July 5 in the offices of the 
g 
int erviewed concerning 
4 
53 
1 states that te 
ce met ARNOLD about be at weeks 
a, 
in Boise 
at 
which time he, SMITH, 
We 
anokt r fligt 
se 
e, Ida 
and | 
lay-over there, 
On 
occasion / 
WILLIAM 
K 
and 
Lieutenant 
FI 
3 
ntel 
cers, anda 
porter JOHNSON 
of the) 
Boi 
a 
h 
LD was on Thursday, 
July 31, 
la 
1en 
h 
ived a 
ne call from ARNOLD calling from Tacoma 
i 
i 
1 
i 
ed SMITH to come over to 'T. 
and 
g dise story for "someone 
y's Airport 
ree of then 
proceeded 
in 
CRISMAN's 
b 
ntl 
E 
wt 
\ 
occupy 
room 502, 
i 
L and invited 
h 
t) 
y this time 
SMITH stat es he 
had learned from ARNOLD that: 
DAH 
the parti- 
cipants in 
the latest flying disc story 
< 
no previous 
acquaintance with either. of +t) 
mer 
re 
ing 
them i 
coma 
is 
date. 
ile in 
Hotel Room 
OLD. 
sho 
y 
I 
received ‘from 
yt) 
of the Venture Press of Chi 
quest 
at 
ARNOLD investigate 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

August 19, 1947 
the -C) 
HL story in Tacoma. 
ARNOLD. informed 
5 
1 at this time’ that 
after recei 
this letter 
ad-called PAL 
by telephone in Chicago 
as a result of 
which call PALMER had. forwarded him 4200.00 
pense money 
for covering the story. 
Shortly thereafter, at about 7:30 P. 
M, HAROLD DAHL 
i 
Aes Banos room < 
d the discussion began among the four men present 
ad seen on Maury Island. DAHL professed reluc— 
tance to iat the story, cle imi g that several unfortunate incidents had 
occurred subsequent to his se 
the flying discs and he believed the entire 
incident had brought him bad luck. In this connection he stated that four or 
five days subsequent to his sighting the flying dis¢es, a man called at his 
home and had a conversation 
bh him the course of which DAHL 
was warned to 
forget all about everything he had seen on or near aly, Island. 
In addition 
to that, DAHL stated that his sixteen year old son had run away from home 
following the incident and had been picked up by the police somewhere in 
Montana. After some further discussion DAHL finally agreed to tell his story. 
of the flying 
disc incident in front of SMITH after eliciting a promise from 
SMITH that he 
would not discuss the matter for at least two week 
It should 
be noted that DAHL had previously told his story to ARNOLD and GF 
fAN, 
At 
this point DAHL related the incident which has already been described 
and which 
he alleged had taken place on or about June 
23 or 24. While relating the 
incident DAHL mentioned that: he had taken pictures of the flying disc vhich 
had seen but that the printed films were. marred with white spots. When 
DAHL had concluded his story, CRIS 
related that he had gone the following 
aury Island to verify what D. 
had told him concerning the fragments 
lis time picked up several fragments and taken them with him. 
At 
this time CRISMAN related that he also saw one of the flying discs hovering 
over the 
Island but that it had disappeared into a cloud. When DAHL and ai 
had 
shed telling their story ARNOLD told the group that he had earlier in 
that e 
evening called Captain DAVIDSON and Lieutenant BROWN, Army Intelligence 
officers and that they were on their way to the.Hotel room. At this point DAHL 
protested that he did not wish to tell his story’ before anyone else and he 
was advised by SMITH that if such was the case why didn't he just leave and not 
be there when they arrived, 
CRI. 
1, DAHL and S{ITH then left the room and 
went downstairs. , DAHL departed alone.'-CRISMAN drove SMITH back to Boeing Field 
near Seattle where SMITH desired to pick up his own personal car, which he’ did. 
They 
then returned to the 
Hotel where they found Captain DAVIDSON and Lieutenant 
BROWN 
in room 502 with 
INE 
ARNOLD, ARNOLD met. them at the door and seemed 
excited, explaining to 
SMITI 
at 
Captain DAVIDSI 
ad just drawn a reproduction 
of a.freak disc which had supposedly been seen by a 
woman in 
/ Arizona. nd that 
this 
drawing 
v 
an exact reproduction of the ee 
disc which he, ARNOLD, had 
seen 
y 
peereee nearing 
Raini 
H states. that shortly after 
this 
CR 
N 
y 
x 
AHL's story to the Army offi- 
cers. 
2: 
pelcoueakshy vith Lieutenant 
BROWN, 
1im 
AH. 
nob to release the SRLS for 
two’ wee! 
CRI oth 
time, BROWN 
and DA 
Tm 
he 
e story for one month; Follow ing this 
is 
story-of the flying dises over Maury 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

August 19, 1917 
ation, Lieutenant BROWN 
Captain DAVIDSON were 
truth in the 
rrent flyi 
disc 
stories, 
i 
1d) did not 
a 
q 
f discussion as to 
chi 
should return that same n 
Hamilton Field and they decid 
they would, All five of the 
men then went down to: the lobby where 
BROWN 
detached pect no from the roup and entered a phone booth to call for a car 
1-also left the group. ong met BROWN outside the phone 
booth niko e they held 
MAN and DAHL's story. 
IN indi 
SMI 
2at he should 
attemt to 
sce Sav OeY. was on the level and that. 
would call him the follo: 
4 
atter. 
The group then proceeded. to the front of the Hotel 
ab which time 
i 
brought 
hi 
to the front of the Hotel and took from 
trunk 
x of 
t. 
lleged fl, 
dise fragments picked up on Maury Is sland. 
offered them to 
nd DAVIDs 
en the Army ear arrived fr 
Chord 
1d the box of fragments was placed in the car with the officers. 
departed alone and 
YOLD and SMITH went in search. of something to eat nd later 
returned to the Hotel for the 
night. 
_ On Friday morning, August’ 1, 1947, ARNOLD received a call 
B-25 had crashed during the night and. it was 
believed te: ‘be the. same ‘plane which BROWN and DAVIDSON were flying. Foll 
again called McChord Field in an attempt to get. information about the crash. 
SMITH took the phone from CR 
and spoke to a Colonel GREGG, identifying 
himself and asking if he 
aoe crashed 
s the only one which had taken 
off from McChord Field 
tr 
GE 3G told him that it was. 
Follow- 
ing this call ARNOLD called. ‘RA 
Pe 
nd informed him of the 
previous night's conversations and the fe t that DAVIE 
IN were believed 
to have been killed. PALMER 
ARNOLD to discontinue | 
investigation of 
the incident and that he, PALMER, was no longer interested. 
TH then took 
the phone from 
YOLD; and as 
IMER if he could shed any light on the 
situation. 
SMITH was unable to say 
MER's reply’ to. Ch 
lowing these telephone discussions 
says that he called 
oe es 
he identifies as a personal friend of His and an aviation editor ‘of the Chicago 
Times, 
SMITH states that he had prefiously made an agreement with RODDY in 
Chicago that, should he ever run across any flying disc stories which showed 
promise of news value, that he would contact, RODDY and this call‘was 
a result 
of that agreement. 
Shortly afterward, Colonel GREGG called him from McChord 
— 
stating that 
Hamilton Field had’ requested that 
ARNOLD, SMITH, 
CRISMAN 
i 
ir addresses to 
ilton Field for convenience of any Army 
ion.of the incident which 
may be forthcoming. After this call the 
vent to a restaurant for lunch. During the course of this meal SMITH 
excused himself from the table and attempted to call SAC BOBBITT of the Port— 
land - Field Office, Federal Bureau of Investigation with whom he claims acquain- 
tance. BOBBITT, however, was unavailable and SiITH was unable to complete the 
- 10 
= 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

, August 19; 1947 
call, 
After returning to the Hotel room, a Tacoma 
attempting to gain i eomatlony but there did not. gi 
any 
later, a Mr, 
MORRELLO of the United Press called and Sit 
TH spoke to him on the telephone 
but refused to 
ve out any information, 
SMITH further relates that 
while 
the four men were in the room at thi 
ie, an envelope was shoved under the 
door and that he retrieved it from 
f 
SUDTE 
: 
> appearance 
this envelope seemed to: startle 
CRISMAN considerably 
d that in‘’fact, CRIGMAN 
nite as @ sheet until SMITH read the note uns: 
4 
ich was a commu= 
the Hotel advisi 
tha t a strike 
of Hotel employees ‘was eminent and 
s should 
not 
and telephone service much longer. 
Shortly 
i 
eft the Hotel room after promising to 
nd the following morning, (Saturday). 
.ARNOLD 
and on their return, SMITH found a note in 
n telephone number. 
He did this fron 
answered by LANTZ, Tacoma Times reporter who requested 
11 him from ¢ 
station, 
Lephon 
is 
been received by 
dis 
e: 
ki 
place in roo 
ae 
ence officers, 
From the 
i! 
“ 
convinced tk 
the anonymous 
must have. been present 
C 
scussion also,.as Li 
was seemingly 
in possession of pertinent rex 
s 
whict 
d been made in the room. 
SMITH 
states tl 
he didnot 
z any further 
inforr 
and that. in conclu- 
sion of the call, he returned to 
the Hotel room and 
a 
IOLD. retired for 
the night. 
On: see CORE 
t 
ation. 
SM 
advis 
vim, how ever, th 
would call him b 
ca 
1€ 
called from 
fee shop nearby and AR 
DAHL, 
CRISMAN 
¢ 
an unknown man in the Coffee Shop for 
1e unknown’ 5 
s di seus sing some lumber business witt 
after breakfast, 
gz 
the coffee shop, SMITH asked DAHL about 
he, claimed to have taken of the flying 
negatives were in the glove compartment of h 
glove. compartment was fruitless. 
The four th 
ear to the dock where they were to embark for 
Maury Island, 
The boat, however, could: not. be started and 
trip was postponed until later 
in the day. 
“hile at 
the dock, however, SMITH é 
shown the damage 
to. the_boat which 
had Aiea wierd! occurred 
wt 
showered down on 
I 
5 
Beate ebaive to the windshield 
SMITE 
personally satisfied that these repairs 
ree such incident, CRISMAN and DAHL then drove ARNOLD 
and Sif 
) 
ately 10:45-A. M. and CRISMAN told then 
he saatate a. 
them 
la 
ni 
1 
sy would go to 
Maury Island. On return- 
ing to. tt 
tote’ 
2 
d LANTZ at the Tacoma 
Times as a result of 
which 
call he 
and 
ARNOLD met LANTZ at the Coffee Shop across the street from the 
white 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

th if meetin, 
to oy to 
s which L: 
rt 
1 
further inform Shon 
the 
T 
TZ 
é 
ere informed by LANTZ 
scooped 
he 
s 
y 
@ 
s going 
NOLD 
en returned to the Hotel 
F 
11 from 
CI 
t 
1 
1 was 
si koa since it was not 
MITH 
Hotel lobby where they found a telegram from 
ae either Broadway or recor 7733, ITH is not 
there. 
rding 
AHL askin them to earn bia 
RICE cage 
1ad. 
occurred and which requested RODDY to 
RODDY ‘could be reached after 6:00 P, 
vhich contained a 
25 which 
killed Captain DAVIDSON : 
OWN. 
INOLD continued 
to occur py scala 
I 
were’ u 
so 
hortly thereafter, J 
eleased .a story 
which BRO 
request: 
ormation 
é 
ised 
SHRAM reveali ng 
tion for 
answer 
‘Lier. x 
ther 
arine plane 
‘The voice 
he wi 
i 
the benefit. of th 
E 
the 
information got 
t 
to} 
Jersey. 
this time that one of t 
vO. 
persons who 
had 
now left for Ala 
sé 
ult of this “ha tter 
had left 
+ 
the + he would 
and 
a tomorrow (Sunday) 
ury Island at that time, After DAHL left, 
r) 
d that they would go out to } 
12 
- 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

August 19, 1947 
TH and 
LD went 
1e 
ma Times Office where a reporter met them 
and took then to MOR 
Press Office, 
Tt 
read the 
latest press’ releases and 
had a ais 
s ussion with MOF 
) 
ard 
the anony— 
mous phone calls. 
In 
the 
course of thi 
si 
) 
mentioned the 
name of Major GEORGE SANDERS, Public Geieticns Officer at 
rd Field as 
being one of the officers, interested in the investigation. 
Follow 
ee 
still refuse 
otel fi 
this 
discussion with. MORRELLO, at which time 
dto divulge any further information, SMITH and 
‘or the 
g 
ig 
Ss 
On: Sunday morning, August. 3, 1947, DAHL 
appeared at the 
Hotel room 
m that he had received a letter from 
which said 
in effect, "Tas 
are 
of my business, 
I'l] be out of town for three or four 
1 
letter with him but hed 
how i 
SMITH 
nen then drove to DAHL's secretary's house in South Tacoma and 
and the four of then then went to breakfast on the South Tacana 
four of them then went to breakfast SMITH excused himself 
and called Maj 
uy 
S ay } {cChord Field and arranged an appointment to meet 
him at the Hotel lobb; 
300 A. 
I. 
They then took 
DAHL's 
secretary to her 
home where Dé 
Suen 
E 
writer and then drove SMITH 
and 
OLD back. 
E 
if he was going to take them 
to Maury Is oe ite 
not.. 
He 
further stated that he was 
ss. and 
he 
was ever contacted by the Amy or the ee 
going to deny ever having seen anything 
and claim to be "the bige 
that ever lived". 
< 
y after returning to the Hotel, 
SMITH: met 
1} 
2 
in the lobby 
in’ SMI’ 
car to a coffee shop in 
South Taco: 
proceeded t 
t 
Maj 
3 the enti re story of the incidents 
1 
occurred in 
2 
2g 
he: 
¢ 
a 
DAHL story since | 
afternoon. Following 
4 
I 
RS. back to th 
D that he 
ID did.so. 
ar to the fragments 
rned to the Hotel room and 
DERS left then: 
After. packir 
SMITH took ARNOLD to Berry's 
where his plane was 
parked and tt 
[TH 
> himself back to Seattle. 
About an hour. a 
tely 7:30 P. Me, 
th the 
per containing the 
in Boise, 
Idaho in the Boise 
SMITH's admission to him that fragments 
Captain DA 
on-the fatal 
£ 
te 
1,at this time’ co 
se to give any statements for the Press 
and told LANTZ that he had placed 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

August 19; 1947 
all oe his information’ in: the 
is of the Army. 
ITH, stated that a. 
couple 
later he called Major 
DERS at 
McChord 
Field 
1 
asked him if there 
y recent information concerni ng the incident. 
SMITH states that Major 
3 
5 informed him thi 
¢ 
i had not: yet been contacted, but that the 
Federal Bureau. of .Inves 
i 
‘setting a trap for-him". 
SMITH further 
advises that on ee 
A ugust 8, 1947, 
+ 
eared before 
er JO! 
at the County-C. 
ng; Seattle and made a deposition of the 
facts relating 
to the incid 
i 
acoma from Thursday afternoon, July 31, last until Sunc 
morning, 
5 
A copy of this deposition is now in possession: of the writer 
and is being forwarded 
ewith.to the Bureau. 
It should be 
ed that this 
deposition is in no 1 
as complete as the 
tement taken by the writer above 
and any setting out of this deposition in this communication would be. superfluous, 
Copies of this communication are being sent to the Butte, 
Portland, 
rancisco and Chicago Offices for their information only. Unless 
advised by 
e Bureau to the contrary, instant investigation is considered closed 
by this office. 
For the information of the Bureau, Captain 
G, BJORNING,; 
Intelligence Officer, McChord Field, Ft. Lev 
O.N. 
S.I.D.-F.B.I. Intelligence conference that the Public Relations heaay 
at McChord Field had received a telephone call se ae an eae St at ee 
i 
Forces Headquarters at pei eah 
D. C 
E 
Officer was requested to obtain a 
g 
ater ent ‘fron DAI 
N 
could be publist 
nd thus abit ely close th 
tter. 
aptain 
BJORNING further 
related that he 
t 
no additional information in t 
matter and that he did 
not handle it. 
Very truly yours, 
map 
sere 
cago 


--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---

August 8,1947 
HAROLD A. DAHL and FRED CRISMAN 
to 
ients could have been from a flying disc. 
letter to RAY 
notes etc. regar¢ 
yments and 
have come from flying dis 
The next thing we heard 
about the 
first of July when we got a 
Trans Ocean Press telegram from Chicago asking mak about these flying 
dise gra, 
nts. 
We told them to Zorget the entire matter. 
The next we heard of these 
KENNETH ARNOLD to meet with hi 
We told him 
PALMER to 
the flying disc stories 
whi 
i 
d over the ore 
we sent to be analyzed. 
AB L extll G YC7 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

STATE OF WASHINGTON ) 
} ss 
COUNTY 
OF KING 
d. E. SMITH, being first duly sworn, on oath, deposes 
and says: 
This is a narrative statement as to what took place in 
Tacoma from Thursday, July 31 until Sunday, August 3. 
Thursday I received a telephone call from Tacoma from a 
Kenneth Arnold. The gist of this conversation was that he thought 
it would be a good idea for me to come to Tacoma and listen to the 
story of two men whose names were Fred Crismon and Harold Dahl. 
This Kenneth Arnold I had met two times previous -= once on July 5 
at the office of the P.I. in Seattle for a very brief time and the 
——, time in Boise, Idaho when I was passing through on one of 
my trips. 
In this conversation with Arnold on the phone, I made the 
statement that it would be impossible for me to go over to Tacoma 
due to my going out to Salt Lake City the next morning. He said 
that he would fly over from Tacoma and pick me up at Boeing Field. 
I agreed to this proposition from Arnold. At 4o'clock I met 
Arnold at the Boeing Field and we flew back and landed at Barry's 
Airport. We were picked up at the airport by Fred Crismon, who 
drove the two of us into the Winthrop Hotel. We went up to Room 
502 ~~ Crismon, Arnold and myself. 
Fred Crismon put a telephone call into Harold Dahl and 
asked him would he come up to the room. A half hour later Harold 
Dahl made his appearance. At this time there were four men in the 
room -- Crismon, Dahl, Arnold, and myself. Mr. Arnold asked Mr. 
Dahl to relate his story as to what took place on June 24+ Mre 
Dahl was very hesitant about telling the story to me. Arnold and 
Mr. Crismon were already aware of the statements that Dahl had made 
previous. Mr. Dahl made the statement to me that if any statements 
he would make relative to his story, if I would keep it confidential 
for two weeks, that he felt definitely that I would want to forget 
the whole thing. I made the statement to Mr. Dahl that as far as I 
was concerned, I would keep any statements he made to me confidential 
for at least two weeks. 
Here is Dahl's story: 
On June 24 (this date to be checked 
later) he was in a boat owned by Fred Crismon, who owns the Harbor 
Patrol in Tacoma. They -- Mr. Dahl, a Mr. Knight, and Mr. Dahl's 
son age 16, were cruising around Maury Island looking for logs that 
had broken away from booms. They were fairly close to shore of 
Maury Island when they saw four or five objects in the sky at an 
altitude of approximately 1500 feet. He said these objects were 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

Page #2 
100 feet in diameter, circular in shape, and it appeared that 
there was a hole in the center of each as he could see the sky 
through this hole. He also mentioned that on the inside of the 
circle or the hole, that portholes were visible. Their speed was 
neglizible as they appeared to hover over a given spote One of 
these objects appeared to be in trouble. Another object came 
over and appeared to make contact. After making this contact for 
approximately two minutes, it rose to its original position. 
At this time the object that appeared to be in trouble 
seemed to throw a lot of debris from one of the portholes, These 
objects then disappeared from view. Some of this debris that 
landed broke in the wheelhouse of the boat, the spotlight, and 
the klexons While this debris was falling, my boy and Mr. Knight 
got off the boat and hid under some logs. This debris that fell 
killed our dog and a sea gull. I asked Mr. Dahl what was done with 
the doge He made the statement they threw the dog into the water. 
This story was told to Mr. Crismon, who the next day 
went out to this Island to check on this story. He verified the 
fact of the damage to the boat, also to the fact that there appeared 
to be quite a few pieces of either rock or metal on the shore. Mr. 
Crismon also stated that while he was over there investigating on 
Maury Island, ke also saw a disk. This disk was of the same shape 
and contour as the objects explained by Mr. Dahl. 
At this point Mr. Arnold clarified for me as to the reasons 
he was investigating this story. Mr. Arnold stated that he received 
a letter from a Mr. Raymond Palmer, supposedly editor of the Venture 
Press, Evanston, Illinois. The gist of this letter was that Mr. 
Palmer received a letter from Mr. Dahl and Mr, Crismon, also a 
package of these fragments that were found on Maury Island. Mrs 
Palmer also made the statement in the letter that the Chicago 
University failed to analyze these fragments and that would Mr. Arnold 
please investigate the story. Mr. Arnold was sent a Western Union 
check for $200.00 to take care of any expense that he might incur 
while making this investigation. 
t 
Mr. Arnold had made a telephone call to Hamilton Field to 
contact a Captain Davidson and a Lieutenant Brown, who were with 
A-2 Intelligence at Hamilton Field, asking them would they make a 
trip to Tacoma to also listen to this story of Dahl and Crismon. 
When Mr. Arnold acquainted me with the fact that he had made this 
phone call in front of Mr. Dahl, Mr. Dahl made the statement that 
he would not tell this story to anybody in Army Intelligence. I 
made the statement to Mr. Dahl that if he felt this way, that he 
should not be in the room when these two Intelligence officers 
arrived. Mr. Dahl thought this was an excellent idea. 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

Page #3 
Mr. Dahl, Mr. Crismon, and myself left the hotel room to 
go downstairs as Mr. Crismon wanted to get some metal that was in 
the back of his car that he had picked up on Maury Island, to 
bring back to the hotel room. Mr. Harold Dahl departed. 
At this time I mde the statement to Mr. Crismon that I 
should like to pick up my car in Seattle. Mr. Crismon drove me to 
Boeing Field, Seattle. After leaving me at Boeing Field, he drove 
back to Tacoma and I drove my own car back to Tacoma. After I had 
put my car in the garage at Tacoma, I went up to the Winthrop Hotel 
and in the room at that time was Mr. Arnold, Mr. Crismon, and Captain 
Davidson from Army Intelligences Lieutenant Brown was downstairs 
getting sandwiches and coffee. When Lieut. Brown came back, the 
stories were again related and Lieut. Brown made a statement that 
all the facts of these stories would be held in strictest confidence 
until released by Mr. Dahl. 
After Mr. Crismon had told all the facts, relating not 
only his own story but that of Mr. Dahl, he asked for the opinion 
of both officers as to what they thought. Lieut. Brown made the 
statement that he would like to obtain some of these fragments to 
take back to Hamilton Fields 
At this time Capt. Davidson and Lieut. Brown were debating 
the thought as to whether to stay over night in Tacoma or leave for 
Hamilton Field immediately, as the B-25 they were flying was 
supposed to be at Hamilton Field the next day for the Air Show. 
The five of us then left the hotel room and went down to 
the hotel lobby where Mr. Brown made a telephone call to McChord 
Field asking them to send a driver to pick up Capt. Davidson and 
himself. Lieut. Brown came up to me and made the statement that he 
and Capt. Davidson were going back to Hamilton Field and that he 
would get in touch with me tomorrow and if after I had seen the 
fragments on Maury Island, if I thought in my own mind that this 
was authentic, they would immediately leave Hamilton Field and 
returne I was to hold this statement by Lieut. Brown in the 
strictest of confidence from the other group of three (Dahl, Crismon, 
and Arnold). 
We then went down to the street where Mr. Crismon drove his 
car up in front and took out a box of fragments and gave this box to- 
Davidson and Browne While waiting for the driver from McChord Field, 
Lieut. Brown and I discussed Pacific operations and things not pere 
tai. 
to this missions. Capt. Davidson and Lieut. Brown departed at 
app: 
tely 12:45 AsM. Mr. Arnold and I went back to our hotel 
room after having a midnight snack. 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

Page #4 
Friday the lst: At approximately 8 o'clock in the 
morning, Mr. Crismon called up our hotel room and acquainted us 
with the fact that the B-25 had crashed. Also that he had called 
McChord Field and from information he received also verified the 
fact that the two men in the ship were Capt. Davidson and Lieut. 
Brown, plus a flight engineer and a hiteh-hiker, This left both 
Mr. Arnold and myself in a very bad state of concern. Approximate- 
ly an hour later Mr. Crismon and Mr. Dahl made their appearance in 
the hotel room. I still wasn't sure that this was the same B=25 
that the two Intelligence officers had left in last night. Mr. 
Crismon then again called McChord Field and talked to a Colonel 
Gregg and the fact was verified again that the two pilots were 
Davidson and Browne 
After an hour or so Mr. Crismon and Mr. Dahl left the 
hotel room with a plan in mind of the four of us meeting the next 
morning (Saturday) for breakfast and going out to Maury Island. 
That evening (Friday) there was a message for me to call 
this particular telephone number that was on the message. I called 
this number and was asked by the party to please call them from a 
paystation.s This party was a Mr. Lantz, a reporter on the Tacoma 
Times. He told me, "I most certainly am doing myself out of a good 
story but I thought you ought to know that somebody has been calling 
this paper and giving us a blow-by-blow description of all that has 
taken place in your room since you arrived." To verify this, Mr. 
Lantz repeated back to me discussions that I felt had only been 
taking place in our room. 
Mr. Lantz also made the statement that there was a leak 
either from the switchboard operator or our room had been tapped. 
I asked Mr. Lantz why he was tipping us off with this information. 
He made the statement that he didn't mind doing this if in return 
that any information that I may let out would be given to him. 
After this conversation with Mr. Lantz I went back to our room and 
told Mr. Arnold. what took place on the telephone. 
Saturday morning: Mr. Arnold and I met Mr. Dahl and 
Fred Crismon for breakfast. We then drove out to the boat to go 
to the island. The boat was unserviceable at the time so we went 
back to the hotel. Mr. Crismon said that he would call later on 
in the day and let us know when the boat would be repaired. That 
was the last time I saw Mr. Crismone 
Approximately 11 o'clock Saturday morning Mr. Crismon 
phoned me and made the statement it would be impossible for him to 
keep this appointment with mee We were cut off by the switchboard 
operator as this was classified as not an emergency call. The 
reason we were cut off was due to a strike in all the Tacoma hotels. 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

Page #5 
Mr. Lantz called up and said if I would call him at 
8:30 that evening, he would have some additional information for 
me. I called Mr. Lantz at 8:30 that evening. He told me that 
this anonymous caller had again called a Mr. Marillo of the 
United Press and said that one of the parties that Mr. Arnold and 
I had come down to see was flown to Alaska. Also he mde 
the state- 
ment Mr. Smith would be called to Wright Field Tuesday. This 
anonymous caller made the statement to Mr. Marillo that this B-25 
was shot down. Mr. Marillo asked this person calling what his 
interest was. This anonymous caller made a statement - "Don't think 
I am doing it for the newspapers. All I am interested in ‘is seeing 
that this information gets back,to New Jersey." 
After I finished the conversation with Mr. Lantz, I went 
over to the United Press and talked with Mr. Marillo and had him 
read back to me the conversations that he had had with this 
anonymous caller. But no opinions at this time were voiced either 
by me or Mr. Marillo. 
Sunday morning I called a Major Sander of S-2 McChord 
Field and asked him to meet me at the Winthrop Hotel at 11 o'clock. 
I met this Major Sander at 11 o'clock and we drove to a small coffee 
shop on the Tacoma Highway where this complete story was related to 
him by mes. 
We then drove back to the Winthrop Hotel where Major 
Sander was introduced to Mr. Arnold by me and again listened to 
Mr. Arnold's story. Mr. Arnold and I departed from the Winthrop 
Hotel Sunday afternoon at approximately 4:30. 
This is to certify that the foregoing statement was taken 
before me, a notary public; that prior to making said statement, the 
witness. was first sworn to tell the whole truth and nothing but the 
truth; that the statement was then reduced to writing and signed by 
me on the 
day of August, 1947. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF I have hereunto set my hand and official 
seal the day and year last above written. 
Notary Public in and for the State 
of Washington, residing at Seattle. 


--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---

Affidavit 
El 
. SMITH 
Re: 
FLYING DISCS SIGHTED BY FRED CKISMAN and HAROID A. DAHL, 
i 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

) Roe 
Ve 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

STANDARD Form no. of * 
se 
@ 
@ 
* 
‘ 
Office ‘Mem randum * UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT 
AP 
: 
, Director, FBI - AIR MAIL 
DATE: August 26, 1947 
FROM 
» SAC, San Francisco 
“()) 
aa 
eS 
SUBJECT: 
‘REPORTS OF FLYING DISCS 
z 
There are being transmitted herewith to the Bureau photostatic copies 
~of three reports received from Lieutenant Colonel DONALD=@PRINGER, A-2, Fourth 
Air Force, Hamilton Field, California, involving reported sightings of flying 
,dises. 
( ye 
The Los Angeles Office is being furnished with a photostatic copy of/ 
the report of Lieutenant Colonel SPRINGER dated August 18, 1947 concerning the 
investigation conducted at the Muroc Flight Test Base, Muroc, California. 
The Butte Office is being furnished with a photostatic copy of the 
report of Lieutenant Colonel SPRINGER dated August 20, 1947 which sets forth a 
letter received from Mr. R. JeMADDEN, Division Plant Engineer, Pacific Telephone 
and Telegraph Company, Helena, Montana. 
This office is maintaining contact with Lieutenant Colonel SPRINGER 
and will furnish the Bureau with a subsequent report from him concerning the ob- 
servations of Mre RAY A,»SWITZER, Sacramento, California, who has reported 
certain observations which he believes may involve a flying disc at Placerville, 
California, on August 14, 1947. 
ad 
* 
7 
MK :EMB 
6 | 
Enclosures - 3 
| 
cc Los Angeles (with enclosure) 
4 
|e 
Pay 
KL 
Butte (with enclosure) 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

at 8s 
i 
x 
i 
ss 
aed 
Logi yisin 
i ifn 
x 
CONFIDENTIAL 
| 
~AADQUARTERS FOURTH AIR FORCE 
nd, 
CosTRoLLine 
OFFICE - 
} 
Fire No. 2208-1 
PErrop coveRED ___. 
/ 
Case CLASSIFICATION 
SraTus OF CASE... 
‘ld. 
REASON FOR INVESTIGATION: Investigation initiated at request of Air Defense Command 
reference ltr Hq ADC, dtd 7 Jul 47, file D3533.5 ID, subj: Investigation of Flying Disc, 
SYNOPSIS: 
On 8 duly 1947, approximately 1000 hours, two incidents ocourred in the vicinity 
of Muroc Flight Test 
Base. 
No further investigation of these incidents is being considered by this headquarters. 
1 
| 
File 4aF 
0 
oe 
ae 
que 211947 
| ae en es 
i 
eens 
ey aa 


--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---

STATE OF CALIFORNIA ). 
‘The following is a statement given oat - 
y 
Commanding Officer, Muroe Army 
Fie 
Ceptain Bei 
D. eee Intellige: 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

©) 
AFEIDAYVIT 
STATE OF CALIFORNIA) 
COUNTY OF KERN) 
* 
The following is a statement given by Major Richard R. 
Office of Chief of Tech. Engineering Division, Muroc Army Air Field, 
Muroc, California, statement given on 11 duly 1947. 
At approximately noon on 8 July 1947, my attention was ca 
object in the air by Colonel Gilkey. 
I observed between five ¢ 
eight (8) miles to the North what appeared to be a thin metalli 
It appeared to be metallic because the method in which it was 
the sun to reflect like an apparently aluminum colored surface. 
moved from an intermediate altitude in an oscillating fashion, 
the surface of the ground and then started climbing again. 
It 
a fairly high altitude and moved off slowly into the distance. 
appeared to be the size of a pursuit @irplane but did not have 
conventional plane. The time that the object was in view was @. 
eight (8) minutes. This sang object was seen by my wife at the 
Shoop, 
lled to an 
1 
5) and 
] 
© object. 
lying caused 
The object 
almost to 
climbed to 
The object 
the shape of a 
\pproximately 
same time. 
This statement has been siven freely and voluntarily without any threats 
or promises under duress. This statement consists of one (1) page, and is 
the truth to the best of my knowledge and belief. 
I have initialed all 
corrections deemed necessary. 
s/s richard r. shoo 
RIOR, ETCHED SSS HOOP, AC 
WITNESS: 
s/s_thomas a. memillan 
THO! 
A. MC 
If. 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

ave 
was pointing 
to 
les per hour 
not hear a 
motor 
been 
balloon. 
was no hallucination. 
out any 
(1) 
have 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

STATE OF CALIFORNIA ) 
COUNTY OF KERN ) 
The following is a statement given by lst. Lt. Joseph C. “icHienry, 
Billeting Officer, Muroc Army Air Field, Muroc, California, statement 
| 
given on 11 July 1947, to Mr. Thomas A. McMillan, CIC S/A. this Station. 
| 
The following statement concerning the actual observance of what has 
| 
been termed as a "flying Disc" or a "flying Saucer" is true and correct and 
| 
it will be noted that the above mentioned observance was made by me per- 
} 
sonelly while enjoying complete health in mind and body. 
i 
On Tuesday 8 July 1947, at approximately nine-thirty A.%. (09:30) 
I was in conversation with versonnel in the Post Exchange Office. My part 
I 
of this conversation was as follows: 
| 
"Someone will have to show me one of these Dise before I will 
| 
believe it." 
| 
Upon leaving the Post Exchange, I went directly to my Office and be- 
| 
fore entering heard one of our local aircraft in the traffic pattern. 
Looking up, as I elways do I observed the aircraft, and looked slightly 
to the left, whereupon I observed two (2) silver objects of oither a 
spherical or disc-like shape, moving about three hundred (300) miles an 
hour, or perhaps less, at approximately eight thousand (8000) feet, heading 
at about three hundred twenty degrees (520°) due north. 
When I first observed these objects I called S/Sgt. Gerald ©. Nauman, 
T/Sgt- Joseph Ruvolo and “iss Jannette Marie Scotte who immediately cane 
to where I was standing. 
I pointed in the direction of the objects and 
asked them the question "Tell me what you see up there." Whereupon, all 
the three (3) with sundry comments stated, "They are flying Disc". To 
further verify my observance I asked them to tell me in what direction the 
objects were travelinz, without indicating their direction myself, and again, 
all three (3) in a consistent nature stated thet the objects were moving 
toward Mojave, California. 
7 
I had time to look away several times and renew my vision of the objects 
to make sure that there were not any results of eye strain, or in eny nature 
an optical illusion. The objects in question were not repeat, were not air- 
eraft, the objects could not have been woather balloons released from this 
station, since they were traveling against the prevailing wind, and since 
the speed at which they were traveling and the horizontal direction in which 
they were traveling, disqualified the fact that they were weather balloons. 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

TIVORI ST 
cE 
“FINE LISIGIN Lira 
@ 
| 
After the observance of these phenomenon and hoping that I might have 
| 
f 
; 
AANGINEDMPT 
AI 
] 
¥ 
- 
ray 
} 
time to enlist further witnesses, I immediately ran into the dispensary to 
get personnel who are Medical Officers to verify, for my own curiosity, the 
actual observance of these objects, but by the time I reached the back porch 
of the dispensary, Mrs. A. C. Naum, who is a registered nurse, and about 
seven (7) other personnel were with me, the objects, had by that time, dis-. 
| 
appeared, due to the speed with which they were traveling. Upon further 
| 
investigation, two (2) of us at the same time sighted another object of a 
} 
silver spherical or dise-like nature at approximately eight thousand (8900) 
q 
feet, traveling in circles over the North-end. 
I called the objects to the 
| 
attention of Mrs. Naum and pointedit out to the other personnel standing near 
/ 
bys All of us saw the object, with the exception of two (2) out of seven (7) 
personnel. All of us looked awey from the object several times to make sure 
} 
there was no eye strain or from permitting the object to become an optical 
q 
illusion. 
From my actual observance the object circled in too tight a circle and 
j 
too severe a plane to be any aircraft that I mow of. It could not have been 
| 
any type of bird because of the reflection that was created when the object 
te 
reached certain altitudes. ‘he object could not have been a local weather 
| 
f; 
balloon for it is very impossible that a weather balloon would stay at the 
| 
| 
same altitude as long and circle in such a consistent mature as did the 
above mentioned object. 
I am femiliar with the results of too constant vision of the sun or + 
any bright object and am aware that optical illusions are possible and 
= 
sil 
probable. 
I wish to make this statement that the above mentioned observance 
| 
was thet of actual subject matter. 
This statement has been given freely and volunterily without any threats 
or promises under duress. This statement consists of two (2) pages, and 
is the truth to the best of my knowledge and belief. 
I have initialed all 
corrections deemed necessary. 
Pi 
s/s 
_joseph c. mo he 
1ST LT JOSEPH C. MC HENRY AC 
s/s thomas a. me millan 
THOMAS A. MC MILDAN


--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---

| 
eee 
STATE OF CALIFORNIA ) 
COUNTY OF KERN ) 
The following is a stetement given by Captain John Paul Strapp, 
Flight Test, Muroc Army Air Field, “uroc, California, statement given to 
ur. Thomas A. Melillan, CIC Agent, this Stetion, on 12 August 1947. 
At 11:60 hours, 8 July 1947, while the undersigned was sitting in 
an observation truck located in Area #3, Rogers Dry Lake, for the 
purpose of observing a P-82 ejection seat experiment, the following 
unfemilierity was observed. 
: 
4 
The undersigned was gazing upwerd toward a formation of two (2) 
P-82's and an A-26 eircraft flyine at 20,000 feet, Preparing to carry 
out & seat ejection experiment, when I observed a rounded odject, 
white aluminum in color, which at first resembled @ parachute canopy. 
The first impression was that a premature ejection of the seat and 
dumny hed occurred. 
‘This body was ejected at a determined height lower 
than 20,000 feet, and was felling at three (3) times the rate observed 
for the parachute which was ejected thirty minutes later. As it fell 
it drifted slightly north of due west against the prevailing wind, to- 
ward Mount Wilson. 
the speed, horizontal motion could not be determined, 
but appeared slower then the maximum velocity 50-80 aircraft. 
: 
As this object descended through a low enough level to permit 
observation of its lateral silhouette, it presented a distinct ovular 
outline, with two (2) projections on the upper surfece which might have 
been thick fins or nobs. These crossed each other at intervals, suggest- 
ing either rotetion or oscillation of slow type. 
or visible means of propulsion were noted. 
The color was silvery, re- 
senbling aluminum painted febric, and did not appear as dense as a 
parachute canopy. 
When the object dropped to a level such that comes into line of 
vision of the mountain tops, it was lost to the vision of the observer. 
It is estimated that the object wes in line of vision about 90 
seconds. Of the five (5) people sitting in the observation truck, four 
(4) observed this object and made remarks about it. These people include: 
Mr..Leng = Civilien, Wright Field, Dayton, Ohio 
(Other names not given) 
The following is my own personal opinions about this “ob jeobs 
1. 
I think it was a man-made object, as evidenced distaintly by 
the outline and functional appearance. 
6 
STD 
AT 
= 
Se INN iebex 
ia 
a 
7 
: Copy, 
smoke flames, propellar arks, engine noise, or other clasuable (). 
eS 
ee 
Sam 
cence s(t Pl 


--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---

oF se | 
T 
t 
yah 
Tey 
Sey, ee i 
MT 
AGINL ALI LIN A ERE 
AP ETD 
AV T 
a 
5 
B = 
a 
° 
i 
fs} 
3 
eI 
o 
8 
=] 
is 
) 
The following is a statement given on 14 duly 1947, by Jannette 
faric scott, Secretary to lst Lt J. ©. McHenry, Billeting Officer, 
Muroe Army Air Field, Muroc, California. 
T am fully “aware of my Civil end Constitutional Rights, and under- 
stand prior to making this statement. 
On Tuesday morning 8 July 1947, at approximately 10:00, while typing 
some cards, and taking care of my routine work, Lieutenant MeHenry 
called me, along with 1/Sgt. Joseph Ruvolo and S/Sgt. Gerald 2. Nauman, 
to the front of B.0.Q. "A" 3ldg. Pointing up in a direction directly 
above me he asked us to explain whet we saw. There were two, silver 
colored disc like dbjects flying toward Mojave, California, one directly 
back of the other, at a speed of about 300 to 400 miles per hour, having 
an altitude of approximately 8000 feet. 
I listened carefully for a few 
minutes, and heard no drone, such as should be heard from any aircraft. 
I also cast my eyes to another direction and looking back to the same 
spot, I was able to distineuish the same objects again. Having assured 
myself thet there was no eye-strain, I wes convinced these objects were 
not weather balloons due to the horizontal position in which they were 
flying. Nor could they have been birds of any nature, due to the de= 
finite reflection from the sun rayse 
i have been on this Jase, considering an absence of six months, 
approximately eizhteen months, and am familiar with all type aircraft. 
About three or four minutes, after these flying objects had nearly 
disappeared, I glanced around and sighted another flying object, 
similar to the above mentioned objects. 
This flying object wes silver 
colored and was in the shape of a dise. Unlike the first two this object 
was flying ine ticht circle, neither losing nor gaining altitude, at 
approximately eight thousand feet, therefore I was convinced it could 
not have been a weather balloon, and because of the tight circle it could 
not have been any type aircraft. 
This statement was given freely and voluntarily without threats 
or promises under duress. This statement consists of one (1) page, and 
is the truth to the best of my knowledge and belief. 
I have initialed 
all corrections deemed necessary. 
Tam of sound mind and body, and swear that this statement is true 
and correct. 
s/s _jannotte marie scott 
Jannette Marie Scott 
WITNESSES: 
s/s thomas a. me millen 
yn i 
phone's 8 
; 
7 
THOMAS A. MC MILLAN 
WUINE ————— ——— 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

STATE OF CALIFORNIA ) 
COUNTY OF KERN ) 
The following is a statement given by S/Sgt. Serald *. 
Sauman, 
4144th AAFBU, Muroc Army Air Field, Muroc, California, statement given 
on 14 July 1947, to 1st Lt. J. ©. McHenry, Billeting Officer. 
On the eight of July 1947 at ten o'clock (10:00) in the morning 
I observed personally two (2) flying disc, flying in a north west direction 
at an estimated altitude of seven or eight thousand feet, traveling at 
approximately three or four hundred miles per hour. 
Just a few minutes before this 1 was in the Silleting Office and 
First Lieutenant Joseph ©. Melenry, called me and two (2) others out- 
side. He then asked us what we saw. 
I saw two (2) objects with my own 
eyes, and I am now and was then in perfect physical condition. I have 
20-20 vision and I am positive these two (2) objects could not have been 
Aireraft, weather balloons or birds. ue to the altitude in which they 
were flying, they gave off a definite reflection from the rays of the sun. 
In addition to these two (2) disc I saw another object a few 
minutes later at the same altitude doing certain maneuvers such as flying 
in a tight circle. The two dise had elready disappeared. This object to 
my knowledge of aircraft could not have been an airplane because of the 
very tight maneuver it was undergoing. 
I have been flying in and heve 
been around all types of aircraft since 1943 and never in my life have I 
seen anything such as this. 
If necessary I can and will swear to this 
statement. 
This statement has been given freely and voluntarily without any 
threats or promises under duress. This statement consists of one (1) 
page, and is the truth to the best of my knowledge and belief. 
I heve 
initialed all corrections deemed necessary. 
s/s t. ce robinson 
PFC T. C. ROBINSON 
WITRESS: 
s/s thomas a. 
mc millan 
4 
MAS A. MC 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

a, 
MAITT AT 
FIDEN 
TIAL 
€) 
>) 
PY 
4 
pal 
rx 
) 
eee ey 
UNJDENTIFIED OBJECT 
4AF-1208-I 
20 August 1947 
MEMORANDUM FOR THE OPPICER IN CHARGE: 
1. On 20 August 1947, this agent and Special Agent Hubbard 
| 
interviewed Mr. Ray A. Switzer, Insurance Adjustor, at his home, 35431 
David Way, Sacramento, California, and he stated in substence: On the 
afternoon of 14 August 1947, he was driving his automobile from Placer= 
ts 
ville, California, on the Cedar Ravine Road. Mr. Switser's wife was in 
the front seat of the automébile and Mrs. Switszer's mother and the two 
Switzer children were in the back seat of the car. At about 1600 hours 
they were at a point approximately five miles southwest from Placerville 
when Switzer saw a white snoke trail out of the corner of his eyes In 
searching for a rocket ship (P80) he saw an object, four to six feet in 
length, ten to fourteen inches wide, and of a metal color, bright like 
highly polished chromium. In relation to the travel of the automobile 
the object was first seen at 1030, and when the object 
|. reached a 
point at approximately 1200, it was engulfed in a puff of dark gray smoke 
about ten feet in diameter. The object was traveling at a terrific rate 
of speed and seemed to be in @ very shallow dive. When the puff of smoke 
appeared, the object disappeared completély and there were no particles 
seen to have fallen from the smoke. The point where the object 
was en- 
gulfed in the smoke was about eight hundred yards distant (in front of) 
Switzer with no possibility of the object being hidden fron view 
by vege=_ 
se 
tation or terrains The object appeared rectanguler in shape 
for — 
: 
one very short period of time it appeared to have a top surface 
was 
very slightly curved. Mr. Switzer turned to tell his wife about the 
: 
object and found her with her mouth open in an effort to say 
i 
il 
and with her hand in a pointing gesture toward where the object had dis- — 
ee. 
| 
appeared. The object was not very high in relation to the terrain and 
| 
seemed to be following the contour of a canyon. 
y 
. 
2. 
Ina 
separate interview Mrs. Switzer concurred in the info: 
t 
obtained from Mr. Switzer with the following exceptions: The smoke 
: 
and the puff thet engulfed the object appeared dark pray in eolor and there 
was no change in the color, Mrs» Switzer estimated the object to be about 
five feet long and’ about a foot wide with the top surface being slightly 
~~ 
curved. The object appeared to be some larger in front than in the rear, 
AGENT'S NOTES: At the time this object was seen, 
2 
back, the sky was clear and the object gave off a very bright reflection, 
— 
3 
Mr. Switzer has been connected with the field of insurance investigation for 
the last eighteen years and appears to be a man not desirous of publicity. 
| 
The other passengers of the car did not see the Sy ess |e Ore 
the process of moving to a ranch near Placerville, Celifs, and his 
new, 
will be Box 45, Aukum, Eldorado County, Calif. ime -appen have deen 
: 
to meet Mr. Switzer at 1400, 26 Aug 47 at Raffeld” 
» Placerville, 
Calif., 
for the purpose of going back over Cedar ii 
Road taJQoRtb My point — 
ie 
ti 
where the object disappeared. 
Bryden E. Moon, Special Agent, 4AF CIC 
PAN FRaweee 
CONTINENT Ape 
VM INE Ld 2 ees 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

AONNDINEN 
TT Al 
5 
~ WAIN DIJLIIN LASALL 
1 
nd 
: 
; 
| 
HEADQUARTERS FOURTH AIR FORCE 
é 
i 
Offiee of the Assistant Chief of Staff, A-2 
Intelligence 
| 
Hamilton Field, California 
1 
4APDA 
20 August 1947 
33305/1208-1 
SUBJECT: Flying Disc. 
‘TOs 
Special Agent in Charge, F3I, U. S. Dept. of Justice, 
Federal Office Building, Room 422, San Francisco, Calif. 
1. The attached letter was received by this office from ire 
Re Je tmdden, Division Plant Sngineer, Pacific Telephone and Telegraph 
Company, on 15 August 1947. 
% 
2¢ No further investigation will be made of this reported inci- 
dent by this headquarters. 
\ 
heblid 
2 Incl: 
Lt. Colonel, OSC 
Ke 
Ag indieated. 
AC of S, AaB 
V 
" DISTRIBUTION: 
AMF = 2 cys 
Gen drwy = 2 
-loy 
Forel 
il 
\ 
AUG 21 1947 
§ 
SAN FRANCISC 
Ne 
: 
nOUTED 10 
\ 
} 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

427 W. 34 Avorue 
Spokane, 
August 8, 1947 
Military Intelligence Division, U.S.A. 
MoChord Field, Washington 
Gentlemen: 
Following the reading of an secount of the visit of Mre Kenneth 
Arnold, Boise, Idaho, as published in the Spokesman Review under date 
of August 7, 1947, the undersigned considered the enclosed account of 
an observetion of a "flying saucer" would be of interest to you. 
| 
This account has not been given to any newspaper or other publice 
ation as yet. 
Yours truly, 
[ef Re Je Madden 
Re Je WADDEM, 
Division Plant Mgrs 
The Paces Tele & Tels Coe 
| 
SAN FRANCISCC 
roky 
ROUTED 
TO; St stn 
< 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

ee 
———. 
as 
+ ee 
Appreximately ten seconds elapsed between the time Karl reported seeing 
the “saucer", coming over the horizon at high speed from the southwest, (Karl 
first thought it a meteor) and travelling northeasterly, and the bringing of 
the car to a stop. 
Ag the car came to a stop, Steve, Karl and Sob, simultaneously, saw the 
followings 
Directly ahead, (NeW) 
2 to 3 miles distant and approximately 
3000 ft. 
above the ground, e bright dise hovering and fluttering in the air. Descend- 
ing and rising through a vertiou] distance of fifty or a hundred feet for a 
period of about five seconds then, while at the top of an ascent, the “dise" 
suddenly swooped to the Northeast at tremendous speed and disappeared into 
the clear air within a distenes of 200 ft. That is to say it did not pass 
beyond en obstruction to further visibility but “melted into thin sir” as 
because 
of tremendous speeds 
ir 
This diese was, from the viewpoint ef the observers, apparently 3 ft. 
in diameter, clreular and of no great thickness « approximmtely 3 or 4 inches. 
The sky was blue with sonttered small sleuds, the sun was shining 
brightly and the disc gleamed and shimmered in the bright sunlicht as if 
eovered with highly polished nickel. 
After the “dise" disappeared 
from view, the sedan ond its occupants 
proceeded northwesterly along the road, but could discern no evidence of 
$ 
the presence of the “diese” along or adjacent to that thorofare. 
It is to be remembered that the dimensions as stated above were as 
they appeared to the observers some 2 or 35 miles from the “dise" and the 
true dimensions mst be considerably 
grester. 
Ay seas 
Division 
Plant Mer. 
The Pace Tol. & Tele Co. 
en 
. ce 
a 
en nd ea 
Gos 
ead 
— 
a 
SE Se


--- PAGE BREAK ---

Oy. 
VOfice Memorandum * UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT 
: DIRECTOR 
DATE: 9-15-47 
Minn * SAC, San 
F. 
SUBJECT: REPORTS OF FLYING DISCS 
Borer ends _is made to 
letter dated August 26, 1947. Enclosed is 
a copy of a 
2 
ptember 
from Lt, Colonel DONALD L. SPRING 
0 
Mi 
> 4th Air Force CIC on 
andum contains information 
Ca 
nia. 
Also e Hee isa letter dated September 10, 1947 from Colonel 
intent on to A2 of selling for Eble 
ion his detailed account of his 
investigation of flying discs, 
RECORDED 
FX-64 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

SA clingeE 
Sag 
Me, 
> 
WITT AY 
\ Pibtoos 
MONET DTN Lak 
HEADQUARTEE 
Office of the Assist 
Intell 
Hamilton Fie 
4APDA 
d 
Sente 
$35..5/1208-1 
ber 194% 
SUBJECT: 
Investigation of Flying Disc. 
TO: 
Special Agent in Charge, FST, 1 
Room 422, Federal Office. dui 
Attached MOIC for your information. 
1 Inel: 
WOIC, Moon, dtd 20 Aug 47. 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

Telephone message received 
from lire Al Keck, City Sditor, Oskland Iribunes 
' 
tir, Ray Ay Switeer, S451 David Yay, Sacramento 2, Calif, end insurance 
| 
oxeoutive with the firm of Moduire end Vallis, of Sacramento, reported the 
following incidents 
At 43764. on August 14, while Griving on Cedar Nevine Road, 4 to & 
wiles southeast 
of Placerville, “slit, he, secompanied 
by his wife, observed 
® “vapor” trail moving from north to souths Closer observation revealed a 
piece of “shiny metel’ et from £00 to 1000 feet altitude moving at a “high 
rate 
of spoed"» The objeat appeared to be nore "rocket=<shaped” than diso- 
shapede It appeared to be approximately 5 feet in length and was “tilted 
in a sonki-oirele”, 
aie 
The ebjest struck the cround with a “puff of bleek anoke"” about 100 
feet below the top of o hill which was approximately 760 feet ahead of the 
automobile driven 
by 
the observer. An intervenin«: 
canyon prevented inveeti- 
avscrver is able 
to identify the location where the object was 
observed to lands 
- 
Gir. Switzer is @ University 
of California graduete, end is personally 
imown by members of the Oskland Tribune steff. te is a brother-in-law 
of 
Cole Sray of the Marine Hospital of Southern California) 
gation 
of the } 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

oats 
MEMORANDUM FOR THE OFFICER IN CHARGE: 
le 
On 20 August 1947, this agent and Special Agent Hubbard 
interviewed lire Key Ase Switzer, Insurance Adjustor, at his home, 3451 
David Way, Sacremenvo, California, and he stated in substances On the 
afternoon of 14 August 1947, he was driving his automobile from Placer= 
ville, California, on the Cedar ilavine Road. Mr. Switzer's wife was in 
the front seat of the automobile and Mrs. Switger's mother and the two 
Switser children were in the back seat of the car. At about 1600 hours 
they were at ea point approximately five miles southwest from Placerville 
when Switzer saw a white smoke trail out of the corner of his eyée In 
| 
searching for a rocket ship (?80) ho saw an object, four to six feet in 
length, ten to fourteen inches wide, and of a metal color, bright like 
highly polished chromium. In relation to the travel of the automobile — 
he object was first seen at 1030, and when the object reached a 
= 
= 
point at approximately 1200, it was engulfed in a puff pf dark gray 
s 
about ten feet in diameters The object was traveling at a terrific 
r 
of speed end seemed to be in a very shallow divee When the puff of seeks 
appeared, the object disappeared completely and there were no 
seen to have fallen from the smoke. The point where the object was 
gulfed in the smoke was about eight hundred yards distant Ler front. 
Switzer with no possibility of the object being hidden from view by 
tation or terrain. The object appeared rectangular in shape except 
one very short period of time it appeared to have a top surface that 
very slightly curved. fir. Switzer turned to tell his wife about the 
object and found her with her mouth open in an effort to say 
ha 
and with her hand in a pointing gesture toward 
the object had dis=- 
appeared. 
‘the object was not very high in relation 
to the terrain and 
seemed to be following the contour of a canyon. 
ae 
ee 
2. In a separate interview “rs. Switzer concurred in the inf 
obtained from Mr. Switzer with the following exceptions: The smoke tra: 
and the puff thet engulfed the object appeared dark gray in color and there 
wes no change in the colors iirse Switzer estimated the object to be about 
b 
five feet long and about a foot wide with the top surface being sligh' 
ie 
curved. Uhe object appeared to be some larger in front than in the 
AGENT'S NOTES: At the time this object was seen, the sun was to the 
Swi 
back, the sky was clear and the object gave off a very bright 
i 
Nala 
Mre Switzer has beer connected with the field of insurance investigation 
the last eighteen years and appears to be a man not desirous of publi: 
The other passengers of the car did not see the object. Ure Swi 
the process of moving to e ranch near Placerville, Calif., and 
will be Box 43, Aukum, Eldorado “ounty, Calif, Arrangements have been 
to meet Mr. Switzer at 1400, 26 Aug 47 at Raffels Hotel, Placerville. 
for the purpose of going back over Cedar Ravine Koad to. loeate the po: 
where the object disappeared. 
Bryden & Moon, Speoial Agent, 4AF CIC 
“ 
sg 
ot 
seers 
poe ATE 


--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---

7 SARI 
ATIE 
ET 
of, 
\ JAGUND GIN itd) 
UNIDENTIFIED OBJECT 
4AF 1208-1 
Be On 26 August 47, $/A Hubbard and this agent contacted Mr. Ray 
Switzer, Insurance Adjustor at the “affels Hotel, Placervillo, Californie. 
After traveling Cedar Ravine road to @ point nine miles southeast of 
Plecerville, known as Suck's Sar, Switzer decided thet the place from 
where he had observed the object on 14 Aug 47 was nearer to Placerville. 
After a thorough check of the road, Switrer believed the spot where 
he 
had observed the object to be on the ride just north of Webber Cresk 
where the road breaks over the summit. This point is two miles from the 
Raffels Hotel, Placerville, California, on the Cedar Kavine loed. As 
the road epproaches the summit it curves to the left which would provide 
fan observer from an automobile a sweeping view 
throuch 40° of the canyon 
and the horizon on the south side of Webber Creek. This point of cbserva~ 
tion lies 38° 42° 45" North Latitude and 120° 47' 15" West Longitude. 
The elevation at this point is 2,000 feet above sea level. 
The horizon 
from this point in the south is formed by a series of mountain posks which 
‘Me generally through 38° 39’ 45" and which are on the south side of Squaw 
Hollow Creek, a distance of four miles, and ranging in elevation from 
2,300 feet to 2,500 feet above sea level. Switzer was not definite es to 
what part of the field of view he had seen the object and indicated that it 
could have been as far as the horizon. Any object, or particles of an 
Object, that Switzer saw, if on the ground on the field of view, would be 
fin a six square mile erea of wooded, mountainous terrain whish is full of 
canyons and ravines. 
AGENT'S WOTES: This agent believes that Switzer could have seen an eluminum 
- gurfaced conventions] type sircraft which, due to the distance at which he 
observed it, distinguishing features were not seen because of the bright 
reflection and the short period of observation. The aircraft would have been 
ooming from the left as Switzer turned to the left, thereby giving the effect 
of a much creater speed than the object was really travoling. 
‘This agent has 
“no explanation as to the smoke treil observed by Switzer. If reconneisanee 
ig desired of the area to see tf anything can be located on the ground, this 
agent bg pet that a small type aircraft similar to an IHS, be used in low 
level 
ght between the hours of 1100 to 1300. Switzer was very cooper= 
ative and expended much of his own time in en effort to be of as much service 
as possible. Switser will communicate with the AC of S, Aew2, Headquarters 
Fourth Air Force, Hamilton Field, Californie, in the event of any report of 
 giroraft wreckage in the ares. 
4. On 26 Aug 47, @ check with Ranger Dixon, State Forest Service, 
Camino, Celifornie, end George B. Young, Forester, Federal Forest Service, 
 Plecerville, Californie, provided the followi 
: 
informations There has 
‘been no forest fires or reported aircraft crashes in the area in question 
within the last month. 
E Bryden f. Moon, Spsciel Agent, 4A¥ CIC 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

Office of the Assistant 
Intelligence 
Hamilton Field, California 
4AFDA 
10 September 1947 
333.5/1208-I 
SUBJECT: Investigation of Flying Disc. 
20: 
Special Agent in Charge, F3I, J. S. Department of Justice, 
Room 422, Federal Office Building, Sen Francisco, California. 
Atteched MOIC for your information, 
FOR THE AC OF S, A~2: 
DONALD L 
1 Incl: 
Lt. Colonel, 
8 
MOIC, Hubbard, dtd 9 Sep 47. 
Deputy AC 
ag 
TAI OF 
ch 
iGALW 
BUR AT OF I 
-StiGAT 
SEP 12 1942 
Uso 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

a 
ne ee 
| 
Sees 
Lar-1208-1 
| 
9 September 1947 
MGMORANDUM FOR THE CFFICHR IN CHARGE? 
wr. Ward L. Stewart, 12h2 Wilvia Street, Berkeley, California, was 
: 
interviewed 3 Septexber 1947 at his place of employzent, the Hearst Mining — 
Budliing, University of Galifornia, concerning flying objects he reported 
Z 
to have sven on 29 July 1947 while with Captain William H. Ryherd of the 
| 
4lSth AaF BU (RT). Mr. Stewart stated in substance that hewasalstlt 
= 
in the Reserve and that on the 29th of July 1947 
after 12 noon he 
and Captain Ryherd had just landed fron a routine t: 
fligat when 
Captain Ryherd called Mr. Stewart's attention to an unidentified flying 
— 
object that was following a P-80 aircraft at a terrific rate of speed. 
Mr, Stewart estixated the P-$0 to be flying at approximately 250 miles 
per hour on a preliminary approach to landing at Haxilton Field, In ir. 
Stewart's estimation the object he sew following the P-80 maintained 
speed of three to four tines that of the aircraft. A moment later a 
second object appeared and flew a course described as some! 
similar 
to a fighter aircraft's maneuvers when aceenpanying heavier 
PS, OF 
a 
left to right movenent, over the object firat sighted. Ur. Stewart stated 
that this maneuvering continued until the objects were out of sight. 
estimted the tine to be avproximately 15 secords, the course approx! 
120 degrees. \r. Stewart could not estimate the size of the objects 
actual altitude, though he did not believe them to be beyond six 
| 
feet. Mr, Stewart described the objects as being milky wite in 
and unlike any conventional type aircraft he had ever seen. When 
i 
whether he was fiailtar with the Navy "Flapjack", Mr. Stewart stated t 
he was, and that he was certain the objects he reported seeing were not 
this nature. 
; 
AGWIT'S NOTES: Mr. Stewart is a former officer of the U.S. AAF and 
a B-29 
— 
pilot of considerable excerience. ur. Stesart does not convey the im 
pression of being the kind of person who would “imagine” that he was 
objects, nor has he any apparent desire for publicity. Ur. Stewart 
is 
charge of machine shops at the University of Oalifornia, Berkeley, 
LESLIE S. HU5BARD, S/A, CIC ADC Lar 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

af 
FBI BUTTE 
8-15-47 
4 
vew 
UF 
_p{RecTor, FBI 
URGENT 
OfLyING DISCS. ON INSTANT BARBANNEX DATE, AL Ws HAWKINS, county 
COMMISSIONER AND EX SHERIFF, TWIN FALLS, IDAHO, AND gOmmmMy J. H. 
BROWN, IDAHO STATE WAREHOUSE INSPECTOR, SAME COMMUNITY, ADVISED 
THAT ON WEDNESDAY MORNING, AUGUST THIRTEEN LAST, AT APPROXIMATELY 
NINE THIRTY AM WHILE FISHING IN RIVER APPROXIMATELY FORTY MILES 
SOUTHWEST OF TWIN FALLS, IDAHO, IN ISOLATED COUNTRY, THEY SAW 
TWO OBJECTS FLYING THROUGH AIR AT GREAT HEIGHT, WHICH APPREXKX 
APPEARED TO BE DISCS, AND AT SAME TIME HEARD ROAR SIMILAR TO NOISE 
CREATED BY MOTOR TRUCK. INFORMANTS ADVISED OBJECTS MOVING VERY 
RAPIDLY AND ‘BAMRNX THAT THEY EACH APPEARED TO BE APPROXIMATELY SIX 
FEET IN DIAMETER, OBJECTS QUICKLY DISAPPEARED FROM SIGHT AND HAVE 
NOT BEEN SEEN SINCE . 
NO FURTHER DESCRIBTION THESE OBJECTS PRESENTLY 
AVAILABLE. FURTHER INVESTIGATION ayfiind CONDUCTED BY THIS DIVISION 
PURSUANT TO BUREAU BULLETIN aaa 
TWO, SUB DIVISION B, DATED 
VEN. 
JULY THIRTY NINETEEN FORTY 
BUREAU WILL BE PROMPTLY INFORMED 
OF ALL PERTINENT DEVEYOPMENTS 
BANISTER 
iA 
( 
4] 
HOLD PLS 637 
7-54 PM OK FBI WA BW 


--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---

'STANDARD FORM NO. 64 
9 
b 
1 
Office Metin ondum * UNITED $i... 
GOVERNMENT 
TO 
 : 
DIRECTOR, FBI 
DATE: August 28, 1947 
c 
af 
Va 
FROM 
+: 
Sac, SAN FRANCISCO 
{2 
rn 
{ 
O 
q 
SUNJECT: REPORTS OF FLYING DISCS 
ATTENTION: ASSISTANT DIRECTOR D. M. LADD 
On August 27, 1947, Lt. Colonel DONALD SPRINGER, A-2, Fourth Air 
Force, Hamilton Field, California, advised that the Area Intelligence Require- 
ments Division Office of the Assistant Chief of Staff, A-2 Headquarters, re- 
quested that one WILLIAM*RHOADS of Phoenix, Arizona, be completely inter- 
viewed in connection with a report that he had seen on July 7, 1947, what 
he believed were flying discs, RHOADS is supposed to have taken several pic- 
tures of the discs with a 620 Box Camera. 
A previous report of this reported sighting of flying discs was 
forwarded the Bureau on August 8, 1947. 
Colonel SPRINGER has advised that GEORGE F. FUGATE, Jr., an 
intelligence agent of A-2 stationed at Long B ach, California, would arrive 
in Phoenix, Arizona, on or about September 2,°1947, and would be instructed 
to contact the Phoenix Field Division Office. 
In accordance with Bureau Bulletin No. 42, Series 1947, it is 
felt that an agent from the Phoenix Field Division should interview WILLIAM 
RHOADS at 4333 North 14th Street, Phoenix, if RHOADS has not already been 
interviewed. Colonel SPRINGER indicated that Mr. FUGATE should, if possible, 
sit in on this interview. 
A copy of the report from A-2 dated August 4, 1947, along with three 
photographic prints of the pictures allegedly taken by Mr. RHOADS, is being 
enclosed for the Phoenix Field Division. 
WWR/jo 
62-2938 
2 cc Phoenix (Encl.) (AMSD) 
AIRMAIL SPECIAL DELIVERY 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

ag 
“UNITS. TWNUYSLN 
Ad ®52 9 
2 
9 
éd 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

a 
* 
‘ 
bu Office Men... ....dum§ + owired o...... GOVERNMENT 
65-477 
£ 
TO 
: 
Director, FBI 
> Mugust 27, 1947 
hr 
: 
SAC, Butte 
¢ 
SUBJECT: 
Re Seattle tels August 7, 1947, and August 12, 1947, in the above 
captioned matter. 
KENN rPMARYOLD, Route 1, Mountain View Drive, Boise, 
Idaho, was inter- 
viewed at the Boise Resident Agency, Boise, Idaho, by SA JOSEPH 
E. 
; 
PE on 
Mr. ARNOLD advised that he received a letter from RAYMOND A. 
Venture Press, Evenston, Illinois, dated June 26, 1947, in which 
. PALA ZR advised thet he was interested in publishing an aruisis in his magazine 
concerning the flying discs seen by Mr. ARNOLD near Mount Rainier on June 24, 1947, 
which letter is being enclosed to the Bureau. Mr. ARNOLD stated that he did not 
give mch thought to PALMER's letter until PALMER wrote him agein end informed 
him that FRED 
TRISMAN end HAROLD A. 
HL 
of Tacoma, Washington, had sent him 
fregments of « flying disc and that he would like him (ARNOLD) to go to Tacoma, 
Washington, and contact CHRISMAN and DAHL to find out if there was any truth in 
their story about the disc fragments. He steted that he did not answer PALMER's 
letter, but inquired of several friends for their opinion in the matter, end 
that they all told him if PAL 
desired to pay his expenses to go to Tacoma, 
= Washington, and look into this matter, that they did not see where he had enything 
© to lose. 
He informed that he gave a talk at the Boise Ad Club on duly 25, 1947, 
about the flying discs he had seen, and also of the request contained in PALME 
A letter to go to Tacoma to investigate additional information regarding the find- 
gine of disc fregments by CHRISI 
end DAHL. 
Ae 
“ 
" ARNOLD advised thet following his talk, he was approached by a person 
who said he knew both CHRISMAN and DAHL and that they were very reliable 
individuals. 
He stated that after thinking it over, he called 
PALMER by telephone 
end at which time he informed PALMER thet he would contact CE 
and DAHL end 
investigate the matter regarding the dise fregments, if PALMER would send him 
$200.00 expense money. 
He also advised that he received $200.00 expense money 
from PALMER vie Western Union the next morning. 
He informed that he left for 
Tacoma, 
Washington, via his personal plane on July 30, 1947. Upon arriving at 
Pendleton, Oregon, he told his story to ED“BEACH, ChA, Ins ae 
from Portland, 
Oregon, who advised him to go ehead with his investi#ation’ 
He 
: 
- 
room at the 
E 
E tee chat ve 
ao Se Sics 
‘gmSEp stelepione to 
make arrangements to talk to him regerdin 
r 
Psaen 
He advised that 
SS, 
DAHL insisted on coming to the hotel room imm 
arriving et Mr. ARNOLD's 
hotel room, 
DAHL stated that he wanted to forget Sere tag 
AEA discs as too meny things 
hed been feppening to him, and advised Mr. ARN ours 
Yn home and forget about 
the discs. 
Mr. ARNOLD stated that he informed 
DAHL thet he wanted to obtain all 
COPIES DESTROYED 
. 
ee 
~ 
270 NOV 18 1964 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

Se 9 ids 
184 
UIUNIBS TWHULN: 
sWdEE f 
f24 
GHAl39ay 
HSM 40 td3y 
Ig 
adtunags 7 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

Director, FB1 
August 27, 1947 
Flying Dises - Tacoms, 
. 
of the information aveileble regarding the disc fragments end that he understood 
iL had told the press about the disc fragments, stating there wes nothing 
to the story and. thet it was a phoney. 
DAHL immediately replied that his story 
was not false or phoney, but thet whet he had seen and whet had happened to him 
was so unusual and fentestic that he wanted to forget about the dise fragments. 
DAHL then agreed to tell Mr. ARNOLD the following story, providing his name and 
the Harbor Patrols would be left outs 
DAHL stated that his dog had been killed and his boy hurt end that 
the wheel mount on his harbor patrol boat had been struck by dise fragments, 
and thet about twenty ton of this materiel had fallen on the beach at Mauri 
Island, and into the bay, and thet a day after this incident, a men about forty 
years of age had contacted him and told him, "I know whet you sew at Mauri Islend 
and I'm telling you in a nice way to forget about it and keep your mouth shut." 
DAHL stated that he had obtained a large number of the fragments and had taken 
them home, but thet FREDYDRICKMAN, his superior officer, hed told him to send 
the fragments to RAYMOND PALVER at Chicago; that PALMER would analyze the specimens 
free of charge. 
DAHL continued stating that on the afternoon of June 21, 1947, 
he wes on patrol with his boy, dog, and two seamen near a cove on the east side 
of Meuri Islend. 
He steted that he looked up through the windshield of the boet 
and at a height of about 1,000 feet, he saw six round circular grey objects 
that looked like large inner tubes slightly squashed. These objects appeared 
to be about 100 feet across end in the center was e hole about twenty-five feet. 
DAHL said he assumed they were some type of a balloon. 
The object in the center 
wes lower than the rest of the other objects, and the other objects were circling 
around it. 
The object in the center seemed to be descending while the others 
followed. 
As the objects descended he saw port holes around the inside of the 
object and what appeared to be windows. 
He stated thet the object in the center 
descended to about 500 feet, and that suddenly one of the circling objects came 
down end touched the object in the center and remained in this position for a 
few minutes, while the other objects continued to circle above. 
The object 
which had descended and touched the object in the center and which was lower, 
then rose and took its place with the other objects. 
All of the objects then started to rise and what appeared to be news- 
papers came out of the center of 
the object in the middle of the circling object. 
Then the sky seemed to rein lava, the leva coming from the object in the center 
and DAHL headed the boat for shore. 
He stated that the lava coming from the 
object in the center appeared to be s white metal, and as it fell into the water, 
clouds of steam rose from the water. 
He stated that some of the lava landed on 
the beach. 
He also stated that his dog was killed and also a sea gull in addition 
to his boy bei 
hurt by the falling lave. 
Mr. 
ARNOLD continued stating that 
DAHL had said thet he had teken pictures of the object and that if Mr. 
ARNOLD 
wanted them, he could have the negatives. 
\HL took M 
ARNOLD 
to the home of 
his secretary 
that evening and showed him some of the disc fre 
nts he hed 
picked up, which were smooth on one side end rough on the other, according 
to 
ir. ARNOLD. 
eee 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

Director, FBI 
August 27, 1947 
Re: 
Flying Discs - Tacoma, Wn. 
fr. ARNOLD stated he received a telephone call from the press upon 
returning to his hotel room, and that the press wanted to know about the flying 
disc fragments, and he told them thet he was not talking ur til he had proved 
it. 
He stated he did not know how the press ever knew he was in Tacoma or had 
seen DAHL. 
ARNOLD informed that at 9:30 A.M. the next morning, July 31, 1947, 
J appeared at his hotel room and DAHL again asked him to go home 
and forget about the dises, that his story was 
not false, but that he head had 
enough trouble. 
DAHL said that his boy had been missed one morning and had been 
found at Lust, Montene, waiting on tables in a cafe; that he did not know how 
he had got there and that too many things were happening. 
Mr. ARNOLD stated 
that when DAHL 
and CHRIS! 
came to his hotel room, they had an armful of 
fragments, and that CHRISMAN had then informed about how he had seen en object 
resembling those seen by DAHL. 
CHRISMAN stated he had taken the patrol boat 
on July 23, 1947, and had gone to Mauri Island and had found the beach littered 
with leva. 
CHRISMAN stated he had looked up and had seen 2 balloon-like object 
with port holes and windows, which had disappeared into a large cloud. 
stated that he asked DAHL again to see the pictures of the objects; that 
had again agreed to show them to him. 
Mr. ARNOLD informed that he hed t 
asked DAHL and CHRISMAN if it would be all right for him to call a friend, 
Captain SMITH 
and heer Ur. D 
h 
sr, 
CHRISMAN readily agreed. 
C 
ain 
DAVIDSON, Army intelligence officers at Hamilton Field, and had asked them to 
come to his hotel, as they had previously instructed him to report to them any- 
thing of an unusual nature or of interest regarding the flying discs. 
He stated he flew to Seattle and got Captain SMITH, and that Lieutenant 
BROWN and Captain DAVIDSON had come to his room about 4:00 P.M. 
Ir, 
AR 
advised that he hed asked Lieutenant BROWN just what he had found out 
the discs, and Lieutenant BROWN had confidentially informed him that + 
obtained a picture of a disc, which appeared to be authentic, which picture 
was taken by a man in Phoenix, Arizona. 
The picture, according to Lieutenen 
BROWN, was of a circular object with a hole in the center, and of another ot 
that looked like a flying wing. He stated that when Lieutenant BR 
told him 
this that he immediately thought of the object seen by DAHL. 
He stated thet 
after hearing DAHL's story, Lieutenant BROW 
and Captain DAVIDSON's attitude 
had changed immediately, and that they sppeared disinterested. 
It was then 
suggested that they all go to Mauri Islend and look for the dise fragments. 
Lieutenant BROWN end Captein DAVIDSON stated that they hed to return to Hamilton 
Field immediately. 
Mr. ARNOLD stated that Lieutenant 
and Captain 
DAVIDSON 
were very careful to gather up all of the fragments which had been brought to 
the room by DAHL and CHRISMAN. 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

Tacoma 
that the next morning he received a call from 
I 
: 
who told him 
that Lieutenant BROWN 
and Yaptain 
DAVIDS 
been killed in 
a 
B-25 crash. 
He stated 
he 
does not know how OH 
L 
had been 
ir 
the plane before anyone else. 
He also stated t 
E duri 
the 
above conference 
numerous telephone calls were received from the press, wanting to know about 
the conference. 
He stated that someone kept tipping 
+ 
press off es to 
what 
was going 
on 
d 
t was being said daily verbatim. 
le informed that PAUL 
LO, 
United Press men at Tacoma, 
appeared to know all that took 
place 
during the conferenc 
d even knew 
t 
crash of the 
2 
ad tho: 
aboard, before the 
Army released 
this information. 
Mr. ARNOLD 
informed that 
when he received news of the crash, that he and Captain SMITH fully expected 
to be contacted by Army Intelligence, as they were the last people 
th 
Lieutenant BR 
and 
Captain 
DAVIDSON, however, they were never contacted. 
further stated that he and Capta 
SMITH went 
dow 
the 
United 
at the survivors of the crash had informed about 
crash and 
told them that the mysterious informant who h 
m calling 
hat the 
25 hed not crashed, but had beens hot down, also that 
informant had said thet en observer at 
Kelso, Washington, 
hi 
hrow out a landir 
flare after the two survivors hac 
p 
end 
that the plane had 
gone into a steep dive and dove 
and further that one engine had been on fire, but tha 
, protecting the engine, had failed to function. 
L then came to see him and Captain SMITH and told tt 
to 
go home 
forget about the discs, that such things as the B-25 crash 
had been happer 
to him 
all along. 
Mr. ARNOLD state 
hat 
he then called Mr. PALMER st Chicago and told 
him that the deal was off ar 
hat if he wanted his 
$200.00 back, he coul 
have it; that two men had been killed 
and he was getting frightened 
of the 
whole thing. 
f 
ad 
thet PALMER informed him that 
it was all right with him 
to keep the 
$200 
ar, he would s 
him an 
@ 
ional check for the 
trouble he had put to. 
Mr 
RNOLD 
advised that previous to this telephone call, 
Captain SMITH 
h 
called his friend, 
MORRI 
ODDY, of the Chicago Times and had 
told him that he did not have any faith in Army intelligence ar 
conduct an investigation on PALMER and get to the bottom 
of 
re A 
ILD 
also advised: thet previous to 
the two above telephor 
asked the press to investigate PALMFR, as Army Intelligence 
had informed him tht 
they could not find PALMER and knew nothing concerning him, « 
appeared not to 
be interested 
in 
PA 
who seemed to know more about the flying 
ses thi 
anyone else. 
r. ARNO 
he 
personally 
thinks thet 
PALMER's business is 
a blind 
for something 
else and that 
DAHL and CE 
anything that 
asks him to 
dv 
not talk unless 
that 
i 
C 
mn 
> 
the disc frag 
story 
ust 3, 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

Director, 
August 27, 1947 
Re: 
Flying 
1947, however, when CHRISMA 
s approached in this regard, and they had gone 
to the boat house where © 
s} 
kept his 
boat, C 
SMAN could not seem to 
make the boat run, and after making some excuses thet he had 
to 
return to his 
office, had steted that he would return in about an hour, and by thet time 
his mechanic should have the boat repeired 
and they could all proceed to Mauri 
Island. 
Mr. 
ARNOLD informed thet CHRISMAN 
never returned, 
8 
thet they were 
unable to locate C 
[SM 
at any of 
e telephone numbers he hed given them. 
They located DAHL in a movie, according to ARNOLD, and that DAHL, 
after making some efforts to locate C 
» 
had informed them that C 
f 
had left town for a few days. 
He further informed t at about this time the 
press contacted them and told them an informant had celled and told them 
Is 
as on his way to “Alaska in en Army plane. 
Mr. ARNOLD advised that Captain S 
H hed informed him thet he had 
appointment with Major 
SAN 
RS at McCord Field end intended to tell 
\ 
complete story. 
PBuring the afternoon, Captain SMITH and 
NDERS came to the hotel roo 
according 
t 
NOLD, 
and some of th 
AHL had brought to Mr. 
A 
the 
conference, 
to Major SANDERS. Upon viewi 
mn 
q 
jor SAN 
S, aécord- 
ie "to 
r. ARNOLD, stated that they were nothing but slag from the copper mill, 
however, before 
Major S 
S left, he gathered up every fragment in the room, 
according to Mr. ARNOLD, and took them 
with him. 
fr. ARNOLD 
stated that he 
then left for Boise, Idaho. 
re 
ARNOLD produced a letter dated August 5, 1947, from PALMER 
in which PAL) 
tempts to encourage 
Mr. ARNOLD to continue 
hi 
4 
into the flying 
discs. 
This letter is also being 
enclosed to the Bureau. 
ir. ARNOLD also gave SA JETTE a copy of the article sent to 
Mr. PAL 
to the Commanding 
Genera 
Wright 
eld, 
ton, Ohio, regarding 
his sighting 
of the nine discs near Mount Rainier on June 24, 1947. 
This article is also 
being enclosed to the Bureau. 
Mr. 
ARNOLD 
advised that he is vitally interested 
matter and knows that there mst be something to the flying discsstory 
ed that he will do everything in his power to help the Bureau in 
tt is 
matter. 
He also advised thet he has no connection whatsoever 
with the Boise 
Stetesmen. 
He stated that t 
Boise Statesman has never paid him for any 
information he hes given them. 
He informed that he sincerely believes that 
the Boise Statesman is attempting, as he is, to get to the bottom of the flying 
discs story. 
Mr. ARNOL 
stated that he has told the ebove story to Army 
Intelligence a 
Viaj 
S$ and to no one else, with the exception of 
N 
Statesman, Boise, Idaho, .dvised that the 
Boise 
Statesman ee 
never paid 
ARNOLD for eny news item he has given them, and 
has never approached him in this manner. 
he stated that the Boise Statesman 
is not attempting to push the flying discs story, but merely attempting to 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

enent 
investigation 
erre 


--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION 
UNITED STATES 
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE 
OFFICIAL BUSINESS 
BUTI, MONTANA 
Encs. to Bureau 
Re: Flying Disos 
Butte file 65-477 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

ENTURE PRESS 
1718 SHERMAN AVENUE 
EVANSTON, ILLINOIS 
Mr. Kenneth Armold, 
Box 387 
Boise, Idaho 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

VENTURE PRESS 
305 STUDIO BUILDING 
1718 SHERMAN AVENUE 
EVANSTON, ILLINOIS 
Augst 5, 1947 
Ur. Kenneth Arnold, 
Box 387, 
Boise, Idaho 
Dear Mr. Arnold: 
It seems that Mr. Maurice Roddy of the Chicago Times got the 
story from Mr. Smith, because he called me, told me he was 
running it. 
I knew only what you'd told me over the phone. 
Now, it seems the newspapers are pestering the very devil out 
of all you fellows. Crisman wired me for instructions, and I 
told him to say nothing ta the newspapers, because he'll look 
silly if the army explains this as "meteors" or something like 
that. 
I don't blame you for being alarmed, but I trust you've had no 
trouble in your flying since then. Let's get thet straight-- 
there's no horrible plot infolved. 
It's probably true that the 
two men killed were just aecidents. 
It could be true that it 
was not an accident, but I don't think there was any connection 
with the disks, or anything of thet nature, nor is the material 
from Murray Island to blame. 
Certainly I don't think you'd suffer from completing your report 
on your mission, and sending me your affidavit. Also, you'll 
have some money coming for that, and no sense to tossing thet out 
of the window. 
It is unfortunate that the thing seemed so big 
you had to call in army intelligence, but it will take them a 
long téme +o proceed tothe point @'ve reached inthis disk nysteny. 
You see, you aren't the first to see then. They've been known 
for nearly forty years, and I have emple proof of that. 
But 
your experience was the first real break toward a solution. 
I'd 
hate to have you drop the matter when all remaining to do is to 
file your report with me. 
Crisman is willing to contribute his share. 
I hope you will too. 
This thing must not be hushed up and forgotten, 
It's much too 
importent to the people of America, if not the world. 
And no 
censorship of the matter is legal. You needn't feer that angle. 
You certainly did a bang-up job of investigation, also you wrote 
one of the best articles about your Zune 24 experience I've ever 
seen. 
Please do the same on this last business. 
You Gwe it to 
those two men tho were killed. 
I'd also like to know what developed on those pictures yeu took 
of those "dicks", or whatever they weree 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

In short, I'd like to have you continue to keep in contact 
with me, and relay to me anything furtler you learn. 
In turn, I'll give you the whole story, which I'm just about 
ready to break (not in the newsparers). 
And if it was as 
Cangerous as you seem to suspect, I'm efraid I'd have been 
& corpse long agoé 
But, and this is all you need remember, those disks are not 
red corpaseles in your eyeball, and they are not something 
we can forget about with an ostrich in the sand ettitude. 
we've got to solve them, public hysteria or no. 
As for that 
hysteria, if laughing is hysterie, that's all the hysteria 
I've noticedé 
By all means, I want to thank you for the work you've done. 
You know your business, and you handled it like e major. 
But I'm hoping you do the easy part now and get that report 
on paper. 
A check for your June 24 article is going out to you. 
Sincerely yours, 
Ce bekus/ 
R. Ae Palmer 


--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---

VENTURE PRESS 
305 STUDIO BUILDING 
1718 SHERMAN AVENUE 
EVANSTON 
LINOIS 
June 26, 1947 
Mr. Kenneth Arnold, 
Boise, Idaho 
Dear Mr. Arnold: 
I have just read an account in the Chicago Tribume concerning 
an aerial train composed of at least 9 units shaped like a 
pie-plate and silvery in color, traveling at 1200 m.p.h. near 
Mount Ranier, as witnessed by you while flying in the vicinity. 
This is quite important to me, because I have in my possession 
numerous independent confirmations of what you saw, although none 
in as great detail as your account. 
I am interested in publishing 
an article in our magazine, written from a personal account by 
yourself, and accompanied by pix of yourself, plane, and rough 
sketches by yourself, of what you saw. 
If you care to do this for me, I am prepared to pay our usual 
rates of 2¢ perword, plus $5.00 for each photograph you can 
provide, or for each sketch which can be used by our art staff 
to illustrate the article. 
Included in this material, we'd like a short biographical 
sketch of yourself as "author background" material. The 
article would appear under your by-line,. 
If you are not interested, I wuld at least appreciate a 
letter from you, confirming the newspaper story. 
Very truly yours, 
aymond A. Palmer 
Editor, The Venture Press 
In your reply, please use airmail. 


--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---

Form 3811 
Rev. 14-40 
RETURN RECEIPT 
Received from the Postmaster the Registered or Insured Article, the original 
number of which appears on the face of this Card. 
(Signature or name of addressee) 
os 
(Signatdre 
of glldreseeds agent —Agih? slodld enler addressetip namé 
on linie 
Date of delivery .. 
a 194.7 
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 
16—12421 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

Post Office Department 
OFFICIAL BUSINESS 
PENALTY FOR PRIVATE USE TO AVOID PAYMENT OF POSTAGE, $300 
R turn to. 
Street and Number, 
or Post Office Box,f _. 
REGISTERED ARTICLE 
wo. Leer 
Er 
INSURED PARCEL 
Nor ee 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

FBI SEATTLE 
8-14-47 
cDIRECTOR FEI 
ROUTIN 
, 
k WW Jae 
BRUCE JARMSTRONG. . Me 
HOLS. FLYING DISCS INTERNAL eee 
NEWSPAPER SEATTLE POST INTELLIGENCER CARRIED ARTICLE ON AUGUST 
/ 
TWELVE OF REPORT OF FLYING DISCS SEEN BY 
ONE BRUCE ARMSTRONG OF 
BOEING AIRCRAFT COMPANY, AND M. A. NICHOLS, ONE ONE TWO FIVE, SOUTH 
WEST ONE HUNDRED AND SECOND STREET, SEATTLE. INVESTIGATION OF 
SIGHTING BY ARMSTRONG REVEALS OBJECT TO HAVE BEEN PIECE OF 
@MRBURN'T 
PAPER WHICH HAD BEEN SEEN BY CONTROL TOWER AT BOEING FIELD. IN- 
) VESTIGATION 
O8 SIGHTING BY M. A. NICHOLS INDICATES OBJECT WAS 
Bie 
4 
g pl If os 
A 
THER BALLON. LETTER TO FOLLOW. 4 /./ 
7: 
VILGOX 
A.AND H_PLS y 
S-19 PM OK FBI WASH DC GA 


--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---

GATIONS SECTION 
ae)? 
Aug 274947 
TELETYPE 
WASHINGTON 17 FROM PHILADELPHIA 
_®TRECTOR FBI URGENT a 
ats 
¢ 
TF¥LYING OBJECT REPORTED OVER PHILA. AUGUS 
SABOTAGE. 
THE PHILADELPHIA INQUIR 
FORTY SEVEN CARRIED ITEM CONCERS 
TEM CONCE 
PHIL Sie ON 
F AUGUST SIX, 
OBSERVING SUCH 
INTERVIEWED BY PHILA. 
FOLLOWING INFORMATION. AT 
NINETEEN FORTY SEVEN, A BLUISH WHITE 
HEIGHT OF ONE ‘TSSSaSiatmer THOU: 
PROCEEDING FROM A NORTHEASTERLY 
TO 
A 
SOU 
LY DIRECTION. 
ECT LEFT A @AMME TRAIL OF SNOKE WHggN LASTED, F 
SING oR BUZZING soft @ 
; 
F SUCH OBJECT. PEOPLE OBSERVING THE SAME $pEMED 
| 
Saad 
E 
AND INCLUDE A Paommmeseacse 
ARMY 
AIR ee 
LOT 
WS 
JOT BELIEVE ABOVE MENTIONED 
I 
SINCE THE ACCOMPANYING SOUND WAS 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

B 
U.S. 
dF JUS 
fus 8 $56 Ai ceive ie 
w 
sad” 
gecus™ 
INTERNE 9 
\. , 
re ae! 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

PAGE TWO 
ABOUT FOUR HUNDRED TO FIVE HUNDRED MILES PE 
MADE BY ARMY AND NAVY INTELLIGENCE FORCES, 
L WORK ON NEW TYPES 
THEY WILL ADVISE PHILA. OFFICE IN NEXT SEV 
DETAILS WILL FOLLOW. 
BOARDMAN 
OUR. 
N VICI 
L DAYS. 
INQUIRIE: 
NITY 
LETTER 
S BEING 
DOING 
PHILA. 
OF 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

LE 
GE 
Hic TOR 
.S. DEPT. OF JUSTiL 
Aun 8 
537 
AM Ud? 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

STANDARD FORM NO. 64 
4 
5 
‘ 
© 
= 
: 
j Office eS 
. UNITED STAisx. «OVERNMENT 
65~480 
gto 
A; fos Digpotor FBI 
: 
August 20, 1947 
FROM pl SAC Butte 
soni OO esas DISCS 
“A, ope 
Refer teletype to the Bureau dated August 15, 1947. 
Enclosed please find the newspaper account carried by the Twin vette, 
Idého 
"Times News" on August 15, together with a sheet of paper on which Ae Co 
Vv 
aeted to sketch his impressions of the instrument which he claims to 
have seen, 
Concerning URIE's sketches, it may be noted that he believed the 
rolled outer edge which he attempted to create in his drawing to have been about 
a foot through. URIE likewise believed that the tubing or exhaust flame which 
he and his sons claim to have seen was about a foot through and extended at 
least to the back end of the device. The flame did not appear to taper off nor 
to widen out toward the back. 
I. 
and 
stated that they could see a knot on the side of 
the device fran 
which 
flaws were shooting, and that they could see day- 
light between the exhaust flame and the side of the device, The flames did not 
leave any smoke or odor. 
a 
The URIE boys thought that the "side view" sketch should show that 
§ the device was more sharply angled from bottom to top, while URIE himself 
& thought that it was more streamlined and curved, URIE said that the instru- 
ment came to a pointed or rounded top. 
DEFERRED Doon Diy, 
na 
In his notations, URIE mistakenly said tt he had seen it on Thurs- 
8 
dey. During interview, he stated that it actually had been on Wednesday, 
e _ August 15, 1947, when he and his sons saw the contrivance about 1:00 Pe Me 
URIE explained that he had sent his boys to the river to get some 
af 
rope from his boat, When he thought they were overdue, he went outside his 
tool shed to look for them, He noticed them about 300 feet away looking in 
the sky and he glanced up to see what he called the flying disc. He said he 
could only see it for a moment before it disappeared behind a hill which 
vig 
obscured his view. 
URIE further stated that the contrivance was about seventy-five 
feet in the air, URIE resides in the depths of the Snake River Canyon, which 
is about four hundred 
feet deep and twelve hundred feet across at that place. 
According to his accownt, the contrivance was about three hundred feet below 
the rim of the Bigs 
aie he saw it against the steep walls of the canyon on 
the far side, 
its color as sky blue and stated that he doubted 
if it could pe 
t the skye He likewise said that it was purely by 
oe SPER ESE SS 
270 NOW Iafiy 
J 3A SEP wgisay) 
Ry” 
Ex of 
——_ 


--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---

65=480 
* 
BI 65-480 
gy. 
As the machine went by the URIE place, the trees over which it almost 
directly passed (Morman Poplars) did not just bend with the wind as if a plene 
had gone by, but, in URIEts words, “spun around on top as if they were ina 
vacuum," 
KEITH URIE, eight years of age, said he first saw the machine coming 
down the canyon, heading from east to west and following the contours of the 
ground, BILLY, age ten, saw it almost immdiately. Both watched it fly out 
of sight behind a tree in a matter of moments, They said they then ran to 
their Father and learned that he too had seen the machines 
URIE seemed completely sincere about the incident. He said his wife 
and daughter were in the house at the time and had not seen the machine, He 
questioned his brother, who also lives in the canyon, but his brother had been 
eating at the time and had seen nothing. URIE and his two boys mintained 
that they had never before seen one of the discs. URIE, when interviewed, ap=- 
peared to be a sober, middleeaged man. 
JO! 
- 
OSNAN, the"Times News" reporter who originally furnished 
Special Agents 
with information about the incident, likewise stated that URIE 
appeared completely sincere about the machines 
,_~ No further attempt was mde to locate L. naman, inasmuch as 
Je He) 
BROWN, who was with HAWKINS at the time, was interviewed. BROMN's naw 
was 
withheld fran the newspaper because HAWKINS and BROWN were fishing at Sale 
mon dam while BROWN was supposed to have been working in Twin Falls. 
BROWN said simply that he and HAWKINS could hear a roare They looked 
up and could see two instruments flying at a great height, which BROWN mentioned 
might have been between four thousand and six thousand feet, However, he said 
he had no idea how large the devices were and consequently, they may have been 
several miles aways He said thet he and HAWKINS were satisfied they had seen 
somthing and they were very doubtful that they had seen two planese 
RdGsFO*S 
Enc. (2) 


--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---

ENCLOSURE 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

TWIN FALLS, IDAHO, FRIDAY, AUGUST 15, 1947 
Heads Up, Folks! The Dises Are Flying A 
SiDE view 
ranch, It seemed to be pexered by 
*% 
* 
* 
Borrem view 
This is an artist's conception of the flying disc that A. C. Urie saw | sides, and could well be the inspiration for something new in women's 
sweeping through Snake river canyon ix miles west of Blue Lakes 
jets pire a fiery ore 
on both 
* 
Flying Saucer Repaid F 
At 1,000 Miles Per Hour; Two Others Are Seen 
hats, such a: 
staff engraving) 
ee B® 
ashing Down 
a “flying saucer” creation. 
a > = 
END VIEW 
(Drawing by Vic Goertzen- 
* 
* 
8 
& 
Canyon 
By JOHN BROSNAN 
Just as Magic Valley 
and the 
nation were starting to let go of 
lampposts after reeling under a 
welter of flying saucer reports, two 
more Twin Falls county men re- 
vived speculation on the mystery 
with vivid descriptions of discs they 
saw. 
lq From A. C. Urie, who operates 
the Auger Falls Trout farm six 
miles west of Blue Lakes ranch in 
ke river canyon, came perhaps 
most detailed account of one of 
the fast-flying objects the nation 
has yet produced. 
‘The flying saucer Urie saw was 
skimming along through Snake river 
canyon at a height of about 75 
feet at 1 p. m. Wednesday. At 9:30 
a, m. the same day, L. W. Hawk- 
ins, Twin Falls county commis- 
sioner and former county sheriff 
from Filer, also saw two circular 
objects soaring along at a great 
height near Salmon dam 40 miles 
southwest of Twin Falls. 
Here is Urie’s eye-witness de- 
scription of the flying discs seen by 
him and his son, Keith, 8, and Billy, 
10: 
“{ obtained a close-up view 
the flying saucer as it passed by the 
trout 
farm at 1 p. m. Aug. 13 going 
down Snake river canyon at a height | 
of about 75 feet from the canyon 
floor. I would estimate the speed 
at about 1,000 miles per hour.” 
Urie explained that the incident 
occurred while the two boys were 
coming across the river from the 
north side in a boat. He ha ve-| 
come concerned about what was de- j 
laying them, and had walked. down 
toward the river to see if they were 
all 
“{ had a side view at a distance | 
of about 300 feet and almost on a 
level with the thing,” 
Urie con- 
tinued. “Two of my boys, 
Keith 
and Billy, were below me 
and they 
also saw 
it 
at about a 
-degree 
angle. They both got a bottom and 
a side view, and we were all look- 
ing 
at 
it from the south side of the | 
(Continued on Page 8, Column 6) 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

TIMES-NEWS, TWIN FALLS, IDAHO 
og 
cor] 
lop 
|to Mr. and Mrs. Rudy 
made 
| general hospital maternity home. 
fields in 
has 25 
elds. 
Pepeweemace 
is done to the 
pods, he explained, as the insects 
burrow into a pod at night, eat into 
to the ground the 
, and enter another 
_He rec 
mended 
e 
cent 
DDT dust 
rate of 20 pounds 
per 
and said the first application should | 
be on now. 
Next speaker was W. D. Hay of 
the PMA federal-state seed labora- 
tory at Sacramento, Calif. He dis- 
cussed the movement of bean seed 
in interstate commerce, how the 
seed should be labeled, how to name 
different varieties, and the validity 
of name assignments, 
Carl Blackburn, of the Idaho Crop 
Improvement association, discussed 
the general organization of that 
group and spoke of its measures for 
seed certification. 
‘The delegates then adjourned to 
Clear Lakes resort for a fish fry.| 
| 
||| 
‘The Hospital —_ || 
ereency beds only were avail. 
Twin Falls News in Brief 
To Visit Here 
Aurelia Stark, Portland, Ore., is 
arriving here soon to visit Mr. and 
Mrs. Phil A. Snow. 
Thursda 
| 
Wageman, 
Falls county 
A daughter was born 
Filer, at the Twin 
Return From College 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Van Engelen 
and Fred Van Engelen have re- 
turned from Moscow where they at- 
tended the summer session of the 
University of Idaho. 
BREV 
Miss Povey Visits 
Kathleen Povey, former Spanish 
instructor at Twin Falls high school, 
is visiting here this week. She now 
teaches Spanish in a high school at 
South Pasadena, Calif. 
Auto Recovered 
Clifford J. Roth, 529 Fifth avenue 
north, reported the theft of his 
te ae) Oe ae 
hall to Twin Falls police at 
m. Thursday and 18 minutes Ister| 
reported he had recovered the ve-| 
hicle, 
| 
Visits Schuberts 
| 
Agnes Schubert, Monterey’ Park, | 
Calif., 
visiting 
brot 
and 
sister-in-law, Mr. and Mrs. Mel 
Schubert, this month. Miss Schu- 
bert, former art instructor at Twin 
Falls high school, now teaches in 
California, 
Attend Funeral 
Out-of-town persons who attend- 
ed the Donald Spencer funeral in- 
clude Mrs. George Robbins, Ingle- 
wood, Calif; Mr. and Mrs. Clifton 
Adams, Mr. and Mrs. Ernie Vidun, 
Wayne and Dorothy Adams, and 
Mrs, Norma Lou Veneman, all Po- 
catello; Mrs. Sarah Adams, Mrs. 
Will Severe, Mr. and Mrs. Lyman 
Adams, Mr. and Mrs. Orvil Adams, 
Mr. and Mrs. Howard Adams, Mr. 
and Mrs. Ellsworth Adams, all Oak- 
ley; Mrs. Judson Tolman, Logan, 
Utah, and Mrs. Alice Miller, Salt 
Lake City 
William Munger, 
38, Passes Here} 
William H. Munger, 38, 305 Locust 
street north, died at 11 a. m, Friday 
ja ma 
| courtho 
Marriage License 
Kenneth Miracle and Esta Jay 
Pearson, both of Twin Falls, received 
iage license Thursday at the 
Rector Returns 
The Rev. E, Leslie Rolls, rec 
the Episcopal Church of the 
sion, and Mrs. Rolls 
Thursday from Tacoma, 
where they spent their vacation. 
- | corporated 
Four Parleys 
Set on Cassia 
School Pla 
(From Page One) 
| Sublett; 
14, Almo 
Bi 
; 50, Springdaie; 
Moultor 
‘The above districts would be, 
into one district _w: 
elect five trustees, Tru: 
would be divided thus: 
1, all of Burley school dis 
would 
Return to Kansas City 
E, L. Hoffman and his son, 
Eugene, with Lucille Gahr, has re- 
turned to Kansas City after visiting | 
Mr. and Mrs. H. B, Hogue. M 
Hogue is his mother. 
|On Trip to East 
Mrs. John Hawes and her nephew, 
Pat Boland, have gone to Boston 
and New York City on a two-week’s 
vacation to visit: relatives. 
Visiting 
Mrs. 
Colo., 
Kenne 
cru 
Robert Swanson, Denver, 
visiting her 
Mrs. 
Kail. Mrs. Swanson is a 
resident of Rupert. 
see . Permit 
At plication for a permit to build 
@ 12 by 20-foot private garage of 
feanie conslruction Was filed Friday 
in the office of the city clerk by 
Lola M. Vazquez, 
350 Elm street, 
who estimated the cost at $400. 
Moose to Meet 
Members of the fellowship degree | 
of the Moose lodge 
will meet at 
12:30 p. m. Sunday at 
hall, officials 
Refreshments will be 
Women of the Moose. 
Harry Piper, 71, 
Claimed by Death 
BUHL, Aug. 15—H: 
vester 
Piper, 71, Buhl plumber since 1926, 
died at 9:20 p, m. Thursda 
Twin Falls county gene: 
pital, from complications following 
an emergency operation. 
Mr. Piper was born. June 6, 
in Emporia, Kans., 
Idaho in 1926. 
He is survived by his wife, Mrs. 
Nettie 
Clussman 
Piper; 
three 
daughters, Mrs, Harry Kinter, Buhl; 
Mrs. James F. Perchal, Twin Falls 
served by 
1875, 
and came to 
the Moose 
| 
| 
announced Friday. 
trict west of Overland and the Bu 
ley-Oakley highway; district 2, all}! 
of Burley school district east of 
| 
Overland and the Burley-Oakley | 4 
| highway; district 3, present districts 
Jof Declo, Albion, Springdale and 
| 
|View: district 
4, 
Oakley, Basin, 
| 9 
Moulton; and district 
5, 
Heglar, | 
5, 
|Malta, Elba, Sublett, Almo, Bridge | 
|and all present unorganized terri- 
tory. 
Funeral 
Held for 
Infant at Wendell| 
WENDELL, Aug. 15 — Graveside | 
services were held Thursday eve-| 
ning for Marian Kay Ems, Wendell. 
The infant daughter of Mr. and 
Mrs. Kenneth Ems died at birth 
Thursday morning. 
She is survived by her parents; 
a 
siti 
Se 
and a sister, Janel LaRae, 5. Burial 
|in the Wendell cemetery was under 
the direction of the Frazier mor- 
tuary. 
\Jenkins May Try 
Run Tests Friday 
WENDOVER, Utah, Aug. 15 (P)\— 
Ab Jenkins, holder of most of the 
world’s land speed records for dis- 
tances of 50 miles or more, may be- 
gin late tomorrow test runs in prep 
aration for his newest record as- 
sault. 
Bud Winfield of Los Angeles, de- 
signer of the low-slung Mobil ‘spe- 
cial that Jenkins will drive, pro- 
nounced the car “ready to go.” 
The runs will be made on an 111% 
mile circular track on the Bonne- 
ville salt flats, 
120 miles west o 
Salt Lake City. Jenkins, former Saft 
Lake City mayor, hoped to make 
his official runs early next wee! 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION 
UNITED STATES 
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE 
OFFICIAL, BUSINESS 
Oe] 
ENCLOSURE TO BUREAU 
Butte File 65-480 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

‘Saucer’ Seen 
Flying Down 
Snake Gorge 
(From Page One) 
river facing toward the north. ‘The 
boys saw it coming about half a 
mile up the canyon, and we all lost 
sight of it in less than a mile.” 
While the impression was still 
vivid in their minds, the three got 
together and made rough sketches 
of what they had seen. These, in 
turn, were the basis for the artist’s 
conception of the strange affair by 
Vie Goertzen of Twin Falls for the 
Times-News. 
Tt was all one color—sort of a 
light sky blue with a red, tubular 
iSfiery glow at the side of the top or 
<nood,” Urie continued. 
the canyon floor is rough at 
hat «particular point, and it rode 
‘up and down over the hills and hol- 
lows at a speed indicating some 
type of control faster than the 
reflexes of man. It 1s my opinion 
that it is guided by instruments and 
must be powered by atomic energy 
as it made very little noise—just a 
h as it passed by. 
Urie described the size as ‘about 
20 feet long by 10 feet high and 
10 feet wide, giving it an oblong 
shape, It might be described as look- 
ing like an inverted pie-plate or 
broad-brimmed straw hat that had 
been compressed from two sides 
Pressed for his candid opinion of 
just what it was, Urie said that he| 
was convinced that there was some- 
thing to this flying saucer situation 
“I know a number of the people who 
have also seen them and I know 
that they're not just imagining 
something or trying to get their 
names in the paper,” Urie com- 
mented. 
I do know that it scared the boy: 
and made me feel pretty uneas 
he added. 
‘Tracing down a rumor that County 
Commissioner Hawkins had seen an 
unusual object in the air on the 
same day as Urie’s experience, the 
‘Times-News called him at his Filer 
home, 
| 
“Yes, I did,” he replied without 
hesitation. “I'll. have to admit I’ve 
been skeptical all along until T saw 
| 
it with my own eyes. I can’t say] 
what it, was, but I can say there’ 
something in the air.” 
Hawkins related that while at 
Salmon dam Wednesday morning, 
a sound resembling the echo of a 
motor caused him to look upward, 
and there he saw two circular ob- 
jects that reflected light. They were 
traveling at a great speed and 
higher than most airplanes, accoi 
ing to Hawkins 
Aside from this, he declined to 
add details, except to say, “There 
something in the air.” 
His general description, however, 
| corresponded. closely to those of 
hundreds of persons who reported 
seeing flying saucers after Kenneth 
Arnold, Boise businessman, had 
touched off the deluge by telling of 
coming upon nine disc-like objects 
while he was flying in his private 
plane in Washington. 
‘Thereafter, the nation became in- 
ingly flying saucer conscio 
creating a state of mind that made 
it possible for four ’teen age Twin 
ys 
to cause a mild sensa- 
tion when they built a model flying 
disc and tossed into a local yard 
July 10. This was subseuently re- 
vealed as a hoax, following investi- 
gation by the army and FBI. 
Thereafter the saucer reports 
tapered off into a few scattered in- 
cidents until the question. was re- 
vived by this week’s occurrence: 
Speculation has ranged from 
mention that the discs could be 
army or navy guided missile experi- 
ments, or that they could be similar 
experiments by some foreign cour 
try, to “something out of this 
world. 
Whatever, they are, a lot of people 
have seen “something.” 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

OUT OUR WAY 
LeT THAT 
ALONE, YOU 
FATHEAD, 
AN’ & 
GO ON ABOUT 
YOUR BUSINESS! 
THE BUMP-OF| 
SIDE GLANCES 
(COPR. 1946 BY REA SERVICE, 
“Tf you quit driving to worl 
save enough money to buy Ju: 
the yard!” 
CARNIVAL 


--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---

‘STANDARD FORM NO. 4 
@ 
Office. Mem... vudtt 
* UNITED § 4 GOVERNMENT 
\Y 
To: 
OD. Gp 
pate: August 20, 1947 
: 
{ 
FROM 
: 
E. G. Fiteh 
SUBJECT. 
Authority: 
There is attached hereto copies 
memoranda dated July 24, 
1947, and July 16, 1947, concerning Byron B 
vage, Field Engineer, Radio 
Corporation of America, Da: 
» Texas, 416 N 
> 29th Street, Oklahoma 
City, Oklahoma, and Kenne 
mold, Box 
387, Boise, Idaho. 
nemoranda, 
were made available to Special Agent S. W. Reynolds of the Iiaison Section 
by General Schulgen of the Army Air Forees Intelligence. General Schulgen 
requested that the Bureau coniuct a back; 
individuals mentioned in the 
attached memoranda since they were among the 
first to sight the alleged flying discs. 
He indicated that he desired that 
the investigation be directed 
toward ascertaining whether or not either of 
these individuals have any subversive | 
whe ther 
or not they had any ulterior motives for 
Security Section. 
Attachment 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

OCAPN/KDS: 
cp 
#3724-1 
24 July 1947 
MEMORANDUM. TO THE SECURITY OFFICER, OCAMA, TINKER FIELD. 
SUBJECT: 
BYRON B. SAVAGE, Field Engineer, Radio Corporation 
of America, Dallas, Texas. 
Residence: 416 N. W. 29h Street, 
Oklahoma City, Oklahome. 
) 
RE: 
Flyind Disc. 
On 23 July 1947, BYRON B. SAVAGE was interviewed at his residence, 
416 N. W. 29th Street, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, relating to his alleged 
viewing of a flying disc over the vicinity of Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. 
Subject, whose age is 38, advised he is married end has one child, 
end is presently the holder of a Private Pilot's License, No. 39101 
(Single Engine, Land), 
Subject averred he has extensively studied electron- 
ics, sound engineering end aeronautics, and his present occupation, which is 
Field Engineer for Radio Corporation of America, offices of which ere 
located in Dallas, Texas, is that of installing theater sound equipment. 
SAVAGE stated that between the days 17 May to 21 Mey 1947, just after dusk, 
he observed an object which he believed to be a small aircraft in the south. 
SAVAGE advised that the sun had just gone down and the moon had not arisen 
on the horizon. 
SAVAGE related thet he and his wife had just departed 
their residence and had sterted to enter their car in the driveway at 
416 N. W. 29th Street, Oklahoma City. 
He judged the time to be between 
8:30 pem, end 9:00 p.m., and the lights from the city of Oklahoma City 
appeared to be shining on this object when he first saw it. 
He judged the 
object to be about 160° in the south when he first sew it, and as it moved 
toward him he remarked to his wife that "ea big white plene wes coming over.” 
SAVAGE stated that when this object was at a 45° angle from him, he 
realized it was not a conventional type aircraft, and it eppeared elliptical 
at first end as it moved closer it appeared perfectly round and wes flate 
SAVAGE advised the object, which appeared to him as e disc, had no appearance 
of being spherical and had a ratio of diameter to the thickness of approxi- 
mately 10 to 1, appearing thicker in the center, but this could not be 
positixely ascertained, 
SAVAGE judged the object to be at an altitude of 
between 10,000 and 18,000 feet, and it left no trailing effects. 
SAVAGE 
related that it appeared to be in bulk eas big as the bulk of six Be29s at 
an eltitude of spproximately the same height. 
SAVAGE advised that the object 
was in his vision approximately 15 to 20 seconds and travelled at a speed 
which he judged to be approximately three times that of jet-propelled aircrafts 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

as 
Memo“to the Security Officer, OCAMA, Tinker Field, dtd 
24/47, File 
3724-1, 
SAVAGE stated thet there were no protrusions on this object end as it 
went by he listened for a sound 
of noise, and at one time thor 
tinguished a swishing sound like the rushing of air. 
This swishi: 
occurred a few seconds after this object had passed him. 
possible that the sound could have been his imagination or expect 
he was not sure of the sound, 
SAVAGE related thet he called his wife to 
see this object but it had disappeared before 
she could focus her eyes on 
it. 
Subject stated that the object appeared to diminish in size and 
speed as it moved. vay, and it wes moving in a direction of 350° to the 
north. Subject/steted thet the object eppeared to be frosty white in 
color et all times. 
SAVAGE advised that he has held a pilot's certificate since 1934 and 
has been flying since 1929, 
He adv 
ed 
that he would be 
glad to answer any 
vr inquiries and will cooperate in every way possible. 
SAVAGE stated 
s sure this object was 
not 
steor and in his opinion it must be 
y atomice 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

COPY 
aN 
v 
Incident 
e 
4AF 1208 I 
16 July 1947 
M FOR THE OFFICER IN CHARGEs 
1. 
On 12 July 1947, Mr. Kenneth Arnold, Box 387, Boise, Ideho, 
was interviewed in regard to the report by Mr, Arnold that he saw 9 
strenge objects flying over the Cascede Mountein Range of Washington 
State on July 25th. Mr. Arnold volunterily sgreed to give the interviewer 
a written report of exactly what he had seen on the above mentioned dete. 
The written report of Mr. Arnold is attached to this report as Exhibit A, 
AGENT'S NOTES: 
Mr, Arnold is a man of 32 years of age, being married md 
the father of two children. He is well thought of in the community in 
which he lives, being very much the family men end from all appearances 
a@ very good provider for his family. Mr. Arnold has recently purchased a 
home on the outskirts of Boise, recently purchased a $5,000 airplene in 
which to conduct his business to the extent of which is explained in the 
attached exhibit. It is the personal opinion of the interviewer that Mr, 
Arnold actually saw whet he stated thet he sew, 
It is difficult to believe 
that ea men of Mr. Arnold's character and apparent integrity would state 
thet he saw objects end write up e report to the extent that he did if he 
did not see them. 
To go further, if Mr. Arnold can write a report of the 
character thet he did while not having seen the objects that he claimed he 
saw, it is the opinion of the interviewer that Mr. Arnold is in the wrong 
business, that he should be writing Buck Rogers fiction, Mr. Arnold is 
very outspoken snd somewhat bitter in his opinions of the leaders of the 
U. S. Army Air Forces and the Federal Bureeu of Investigatién for not having 
made an investigation of this matter sooner. 
To put all of the statements 
mede by Mr. Arnold in this report would make it a voluminous volune. 
However, 
efter having checked ean aeronautical map of the erea over which Mr. Arnold 
claims that he saw the objects it wes determined thet all statements made by 
Mr. Arnold in regard to the distances involved, speed of the objects, course 
of the objects and size of the objects, could very possibly be facts. 
The 
distences mentioned by Mr. Arnold in his report ere within a short distance 
of the actual distences on aeronautical. charts of this area, although Mr. 
Arnold has never consulted saerona&tical charts of the type the Army uses. 
Mr. Arnold stated that this business hed suffered greatly since his report 
on July 25 due to the fact that et every stop on his business routes, large 
crowds of people were waiting to question him as to just what he hed seen, 
Mr, Arnold stated further thet if he, st any time in the future, saw anything 
in the sky, to quote Mr, Arnold directly, “if I sew a ten story building 
FRANK M. BROWN, S/A, CIC 4th AF 
wT Gi Vi Li 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

Incident 
4AF 1208 I 
flying through the eir I would never say a word about it", due to the 
fact thet he has been ridiculed by the press to such on extent thet he 
is practically a moron in the eyes of the majority of the population of 
the United States. 
1 Incl: 
Exhibit "A" 
FRANK M. BROW 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

SOME LIFE DATA ON KENNETH ARNOLD 
I was born March 29, 1915 in Subeke, Minnesote. My father's 
neme wes Edward Erb Arnold; my mother's maiden name was Bertha 
E, Barden. 
I was « resident of Minnesota until’ I was six yeers 
old when my family moved to Scobey, Montana, where they home- 
steaded. My grandfather, Rolend C. Arnold elso homesteaded in 
Scobey, Montena, and became quite prominent in political circles 
along with Burton K, Wheeler, the femous Montene senators 
I went to grade school and high school at 
Minot, North 
Dakota, 
I entered scouting et twelve years of age end achieved 
the rank of Eagle scout before I was fourteen. My former scout 
executive was H. H. Prescott, now a regional commissioner for 
the Boy Scouts in Kensas City, Kansas. 
As @ boy, I was interested in athletics and wes selected 
as an ellesteate end in 1932 and 1933 in the stete of North 
Dakote. 
I entered the U. S. Olympic tr#als in fancy diving in 
1932; I wes a Red Cross Life Saving Examiner during the years 
of 1932, '33 end '34, 
1 taught swimming end diving at scout 
camps end the municipal pool in Minot, North Dekote. 
I went 
to the University of Minnesota, where I swem end did fancy 
diving under Neils Thorpe, and elso played. footbell under Bernie 
Biermen, but upon entering college I was unable to continue my 
football career because of en injured knee, My high school foot- 
bell coach was Glenn L, Jerrett, who is now the head football 
coach of the University of North Dakota. 
I had little or no 
finences, and my ambition in furthering my education in college 
> Emit 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

Pace 2 = Some Life deta on Kemeth érnold 
was through my athletics. 
4s a boy in Minot, North Dakote, I 
did © good deal of dog sled recing, placing first with my-dog 
in 1930 in the Lions Club Dog Derby. 
In 1938 I went to work for Red Comet, Inc, of Littleton, 
Colorado, « manufacturer of automatic fire fighting epparetus. 
In 1939 I was made district menager for them over e part of the 
western states, and in 1940 I established my own fire control 
supply known as the Great Western Fire Control Supply. 
I have 
been working as an independent fire control engineer since, 
end I hendle, distribute, sell end instell all types of auto- 
metic and manual fire fighting equipment in the rural areas over 
five western stetes. 
My flying experience started as a boy in Minot, North 
Dekote, where I took my first flying lesson from Earl 7. Vance, 
who wes originally from Great Falls, Montena. Due to the high 
cost et thet time, I wes unable to continue my flying and did 
not fly of any great consequence until 1943. 
I was given my 
pilot certificate by Ed Leach, a senior CAA inspector of 
Portland, Oregon, and for the last three years have owned my 
own eirplane covering my entire territory with same end flying 
from forty to one hundred hours per month since. 
Due to the 
fect thet I use an airplane entirely in my work, in Jsanuery 
of this year I purchased a new Cellair airplene, which ie en 
sirplene designed for high altitude take-offs end short rough 
field usage. 
Yi 
In the type of flying I do, it tekes a greet deal of 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

>! e 
Goi 
Pege 3- Some Life Data on Kenneth Arnold 
practice end judgment to be able to land in most eny cow 
pasture end get out without injuring your eirplane; the 
runways ere very limited and the altitude is very high in 
some of the fields and places I have to go in my work. To 
dete, I have landed in 852 cow pastures in mountein meadows, 
end in over a thousend hours a flet tire has been my greatest 
mishaps 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

FBI SEATTLE 
‘DIRECTOR FBI 
URGENT 
‘ 
L. Re BRUMMETT. SIDYBECKER. “FLYING DISCS. 
INTERNAL SCURITY=X. 
AUGUST FOURTEEN eB4MOOK NINETEEN FORTYSEVEN SEATTLE POST INTELLIGE 
PUBLISHED ARTICLE TO EFFECT THAT Le 
op ERCEELy BOX 
TWO FIVE FOUR RED- 
MOND, WASH, AND SIDNEY DECKER BOX TWO NINE SIX REDMOND, 
WASHINGTON HAD 
SIGHTED TWO DISCS AT APPROXIMATELY NINE AM AUGUST THIRTEEN NINETEEN 
FORTYSEVEN. 
UPON INTERVIEW DECKER STATED THAT TWO VERY BRIGHT OJECTS 
TRAVELING AT AN EXTREME RATE OF SPEED WERE NOTICED BY HIM AS H WAS 
STANDING NEAR THE REDMOND POST OFFICE. 
DECKER DESCRIBED THE OBJECTS 
AS HAVING NO 
WINGS, NO TAIL, AND BOTH ENDS WERE TAPERED. 
DECKER ADDE 
THAT THE OBJECTS RESEMBLED A BELLY TANK AND THAT THEY WERE NOISELESS 
THE OBJECTS WERE VERY BRIGHT AND TRAVELING IN A NORTHEASTERLY DIRECTION 
OVER REDMOND, WASHINGTON, ONE A BIT BEHIND AND A LITTLE ABOVE THE OTHER 
MAINTAINING EQUAL RATES OF SPEED FOR APPROXIMATELY EIGHT SECONDS ay, 
WHICH TIME THEY DISAPPEARED FROM VIEW. 
DECKER ADDED THAT THEY WERE 
HIGHER THAN A PLANE GENERALLY TRAVELS. BRUMMETT ADVISED THAT HE NOTICED 
THE OBJECTS AND CALLED DECKERS ATTENTION TO THEM AND ALSO POINTED THEM 
OUT TO. A MRS MAMIE ENGLISH. BRUMMETT STATED THAT HE SAW TWO OBJECTS 
FLYING, AT A FORTYFIVE DEGREE ANGLE NORTHEASTERLY OVER 
- Ene 
3a 
1/4 
madyooUNH 
“VY 
re 
| 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

oft aU de- 
Va" 
AAangas TWNYSLN! 
Westy Lt 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

ad 
7 
| 
PAGE TWO 
TRAVELING AT LEAST THREE TIMES FASTER THAN A PLAN. BRUMMETT ADDED THAT 
HE WATCHED THE OBJECTS FROM FIVE TO EIGHT SECONDS AT WHICH TIME THEY 
DISAPPEARED FROM SIGHT. ACCORDING TO BRUMMETT THE OBJECTS WERE DESCRIBED 
AS BEING NOISELESS, HAVING NO WINGS OR TAIL, LIGHTER THAN ALUMINUM, 
TAPERED AT BOTH ENDS AND ONE STAYED A LITTLE BEHIND AND A BIT ABOVE THE 
OTHER AND BOTH MAINTAIND EQUAL RATES OF SPEED. FROM BRUMMETTS OBSERVATIO 
HE WAS UNABLE TO DECIDE WHETHER THE OBJECTS WERE FLAT OR ROUND. 
MRS 
MAMIENENGLISH STATED THAT WHEN BRUMMETT CALLED HER ATENTION TO THE 
OBJECTS SHE TOOK A PASSING GLANCE AT THE SKY AND COULD OFFER NO 
DESCRIPTION OTHER THAN THEY LOOKED LIKE TWO SILVER BALLS TRAVELING 
AT A FAST RATE OF SPEED. 
END 
SHOLD PLS 
9-28 PM OK FBI WASH DC GAR 


--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---

+ STANDARD 
FORM NO, 64 
* 
Office Memorandum ¢ UNITED Ss. 
GOVERNMENT 
TO 
) 
|\xJFROM 
\ 
SUBJECT: 
received 
on two 
knew 
ontz 
He 
igton 
\ 
mS 
2 SIC 
a 
270 NOV 18 1964 
no report: 
of no dero; 
ta 
Director, 
DATE: 
» Woodstock, 
iscs in the 
no. record 
Illinois, 
community 
or knowledge of 
ed 
ly lake, Illinois, 
et 
ER, whom he descri 
said he 
had 
he bel: 
no information to 
y unsound and 
alty Comps 
as well 
informa 
occasions and 
we 
acquainted 
ion concerning 
with 
tory 
Publish: 
had 
ram r 
robab]; 
stery 
are 
verns 
varion 
ormerly 
i 
i 
verns 
achinery and 
he 
other 
Ws 
1 
‘Amazin 
ng 
that 
oce 
a4, 
arrec 
ster 
been 
Sep 
the 
stember 20, 1947 
captioned 
he had 
[llinois. 
of 
effect 
super ra 
alls Lemuria. 
resources 
pace 
nets to 
in these 
ships", 
reclaim 


--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---

Director, FBI 
Re: 
FLYING DISCS 
tember 20, 1947 
The article w 
r 
some correl. 
betwee 
he 
flyi 
di 
i 
the 
} 
explosion, 
that RAYMOND PALMER 
ice 
mn 
i 
r 
é 
iy 
5 
ARNOLD to inves 
gate and "cover! 
i 
The article went on to state that on August 1, 1947, at Tacoma, J 
ington 
Ww 
a conference among officials of 
tt 
and Navy, who discussed 
the possible relation between the 
j 
ion and 
the appearance 
of flying discs. ARNOLD was supposed to have been in attendance at this 
conference. At the conference, authorities brought samples of a lava oxide 
metal, allegedly taken from the scene of the Murray Island explosion. 
The article stated that followi 
the conference, two pilots left by plane 
for Hamilton Field, California, carrying samples of the lava oxide metal. 
The article further reported that the plane crashed near Hamilton Field, 
California, and it 
conjectured that the plane had e 
oded by reason of 
the combustion of the lava oxide 
al it carried. 
above newspaper article, it should be noted 
that RAYMOND PALME! 
g 
start "expl 
ing" the appearance of 
ises, possibly t 
the 
appeal of SHAVER's 
stories. 
therefore, that the enti 
flying disc theo: 
Ss concei 
Q 
OAGslab 
100-18999 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

7 
é 
ermine rom ne. 64 
+ 
6 
: Office Memorandum + onrrep states GOVERNMENT 
Waa: 
be 
TO 
: 
Director, FBI 
DATE: 9-177) 
<—AFROM 
+ 
SAC, Anchorage 
Sau 
SUBJECT: 
Flying Disks 
Reference is made to Bureau Bulletin No. 42 dated July 30, 
1947. 
This is to advise that two army officers repprted to the 
Office of the Director of Intelligence, headquarters Alaskan Department, 
at Fort Richardson, Alaska, that they had witnessed an object passing 
through the air at a tremendous rate of speed which could not be judged 
as to miles per hour. 
The first officer stated that his attention was attracted to 
this airborne object, and he in turn pointed it out to the second of- 
ficer. The object appeared to be shaped like a sphere and did not give 
the impression of being saucer-like or comparable to a disk. The firsty 
officer stated that it would be impossible to give minute details con— 
cerning the object, but that it appeared to be approximately two or three 
feet in diameter and did not leave any vapor ~ trail in the sky. 
oes 
Both officers attempted to determine the approximate dititude 
of the object, and from a weather group stationed nearby it was de- 
termined that cloud formations at the time the object was sighted were 
“scattered above 10,000 feet." The object was noted to be traveling 
below the cloud formation. 
The first officer stated that in his opinion the object ap- 
peared to be metallic and was silver in color, mech like the color of 
many airplanes. 
The second officer stated substantially the same facts and 
also pointed out that the object remined within his vision for ap- 
proximately 15 to 20 seconds. When sighted, the object was traveling 
due south at a speed considerably in excess of any plane. The second 
officer stated that the object appeared to him to be approximately 10 
feet in diameter and compared it to half the size of a full moon on an 
5 
ordinary night. The second officer based the altitude at approximately 
“~~~ 
the same as the first officer except for the fact that due to the size 
he believed the object to be, he estimated the altitude to be only 
approximately 3,000 or 4,000 feet. The object appeared broadside to 
the second officer, and no evidence of a spinning motion or reflection 
was noted. As to the color, the second 
officer pointed out that it 
appeared to be a dull metal finishg t 
7 
ere 
“ 
Gf 
/ 
P70. NOV 18 1964 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

| 
Jee} 
JUNIIS TWANU3LN 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

Letter to Director, FBI 
Re: 
Flying Disks 
In conclusion, the second officer pointed out that one of 
the remrkable features of this object was that it was definitely 
traveling against the wind. 
The exact date of the sighting of this object was not fur- 
nished this office, and inasmch as it occurred previously to the re- 
ceipt of Bureau instructions in this matter, no further investigation 
is being conducted by this office mless specifically requested to do 
so by the Bureau. 
100-1403 
se 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

[STANDARD,FORM NO. 64 
« 
r 
~ 
ches 
- Office Memorandum * UNITED STATES GOVERN 
Director, FBI 
DATE: September 
SAC, Philadelphia 
SUBJECT: 
FLYING OBJECT REPORTED OVER PHILADELPHIA 
AUGUST 6, 1947 
SABOTAGE 
Remytel August 7 iat. 2 lh 
Va S33 
Miss ELEANORANADDLE, 2114 Hobart Street, Philadelphia, who is employed 
by the GEORGE R. GREENWALD MANUFACTURING COMPANY, 1524 Chestnut Street, Phila- 
delphia, advised as follows: 
os 
a 
ae 
Between 10:30 and 10:45 p.m. on August 6, 1947, she was sitting on 
the steps of her home with C. CBCELEN FINE. She was facing north and observed 
a large white object traveling a 
very fast rate of speed to the south. 
There was a buzzing sound, not too loud but plainly audible, just after this 
object passed through the air. This white object left in its trait a thin 
streak of smoke, which was grayish in colore 
Miss CECELIA FINE, 5617 Arlington Street, Philadelphia, who is em- 
Ployed by the PRESSMAN & GUTMAN COMPANY, INC., Room 1140, P.S.F.S. Building, 
Philadelphia, stated she was sitting on the steps of Miss NADDLE's home on 
the evening of August 6, 1947, around 10:45 pem. engaging in conversation 
with Miss NADDLE, when Miss NADDLE abruptly stopped in the:middle of her con- 
versation and appeared to be frightened. Miss FINE at that time was sitting 
in a position in which she was facing southe She did not see any object in 
the sky after noting Miss NADDLE's change of expression, but she did hear a 
slight buzzing sound. 
JOHN SNYDER, 1440 Vankirk Street, Philadelphia, an insurance agent, 
who was a former pilot of B-24's in the Army Air Corps, advised as follows: 
He was sitting on the steps of his home around 10:45 p.m. on August 
6, 1947, with his wife; and his neighbors, the KELLY family, were sitting on 
their steps next door to the residence of SNYDER. 
All of the above parties 
were facing east. SNYDER noticed at this time an object, emitting a bluish- 
white flame, passing quickly through the air. The object was traveling from 
northeast to southwest. Using his experience in the Army Air Corps as a guide, 
SNYDER estimated the above object was between 1000 and 3000 feet in the air 
and traveling at a rate of between 400 to 500 miles an hour. This object dia 
not lose elevation as it passed through the air and left either smoke or a 
condensation trail in its former path, which lasted for about two seconds. 
A hissing sound accompanied the passing 
s object. This sound was moder- 
< 
ate and not nearly as loud as they c 
agcompanying the passage of a rocket 
ship. 
: 
OGM, 
nyt be. 
(7 
D 37 SEP IBO"917 
7 
NDR 
NOV 18 iv04 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

ei 
LUNOBS WNYBLN 
Hid 4h 
| 92: 
ANI OBe 
ibe ds. 
AIUNORS WAYSLN: 
HEAT OG 
U3AI9938 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

Director, FBI 
September 18, 1947 
JOHN J. KELLY, 1442 Vankirk Street, who is a retired police officer 
of the Philadelphia Police Department, advised as follows: 
Around 10:45 p.m. on August 6, 1947, he and his wife were sitting on 
the steps of their home, when KELLY noticed an object, resembling to him a 
giant firecracker, pass quickly through the air. KELLY heard no noise, but 
the object had completely passed from view in a southern direction within a 
split second. It left a fiery trail for about 100 feet. August 6, 1947, 
was a clear night, and no storm was brewing. KELLY was sure the object he 
saw was no falling star, and he noted the above object did not seem to be 
falling but maintained the same altitude. 
The wives of SNYDER and KELLY verified the accounts of their husbands 
as to the above-mentioned object. 
It is to be noted that the SNYDERS and the KELLYS live in Northeast. | 
Philadelphia near Oxford Circle, which is about ten miles removed from the 
residence of Miss NADDLE. Miss NADDLE's residence is located in the western 
part of Philadelphia. The Misses NADDLE and FINE are not known to the above- 
mentioned KELLYS and SNYDERS. 
It is further noted the observation of Miss 
NADDLE, the KELLYS, and the SNYDERS roughly correspond. All of the above 
persons seem reliable and not the type to seek publicity or to spread rumors. 
Miss NADDLE and JOHNXKELLY called the "Inquirer", Philadelphia news- 
paper, and inquired if it could offer any explanation as to what they had 
seen. 
A representative of that paper had advised Miss NADDLE and KELLY that 
the object they saw may have been some product of an oil refinery or chemical 
company in their neighborhood. 
Both the Offices of Naval Intelligence and Army Intelligence in Phila- 
delphia were requested by the Philadelphia Office to ascertain if either the 
Army or the Navy was doing any experimental work on new types of planes or 
equipment, in the vicinity of Philadelphia. Such was done with negative re- 
sults. The Office of Naval Intelligence indicated that an explosion had oc- 
curred at the CHARLES LENNIG CHEMICAL COMPANY on August 6, 1947. 
S. A. GIMBEL, Safety Department of the CHARLES LENNIG CHEMICAL COMPANY, 
INC., 5000 Richmond Street, Philadelphia, advised 
as follows: 
The above company is a manufacturer and distributor of chemicals. 
A fire had occurred on a dump of the company on August 6, 1947, but was 
quickly gotten under control. Such fire was confined to the company's prem- 
ises and could not have been observed from outside the plant. 
The CHARLES 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

Director, FBI 
September 18, 1947 
LENNIG COMPANY is about two and one-half miles southeast from Oxford Circle. 
The account of the fire does not seem to fit into the general pattern of the 
above-mentioned flying object, for itis noted that the flying object was 
allegedly traveling from a position northeast of Oxford Circle to a south- 
westerly direction in Philadelphia. GIMBEL pointed out that, to the best 
of his knowledge, there are no oil refineries and chemical companies located 
around Oxford Circle or north of such, but that all of the companies of this 
type are several miles south of Oxford Circle. 
All logical investigation having been conducted, no further action 
will be taken on the instant matter unless advised to the contrary by the 
Bureau. 
FFB/ctg 
98-1762 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

September 27, 1947 
Major General George C. McDonald 
Assistant Chief Air staff - 2 
The Pentagon 
Washington, D. C, 
j 
Oo ge / 
Dear General MeDonAla: 
The Federal Bureau of Investigation has been requested 
by your office to assist in the investigation of reported Signt- 
ings of flying discs. 
My attention has been called to instructions disseminated 
by the Air Forces relative to this mtter. I have been advised 
that these instructions indicate that the Air Forces would inter= 
view responsible observers while the FBI would investigate incidents 
of dises found on the ground, thereby relieving the Air Forces of 
running down incidents which in many cases turned out to be “ash 
ean covers, toilet seats and whatnot." 
In view of the apparent understanding by the Air Forces 
of the position of the Federal Bureau of Investigation in this 
matter, I cannot permit the personnel and time of this organiza- 
tion to be dissipated in this mamer. 
I am advising the Field Divisions of the Federal Bureau 
of Investigation to discontinue all investigative activity regard- 
ing the reported sightings of flying discs, and am instructing them 
to refer all complaints received to the appropriate Air Force 
representative in their area. 
es) 
Sincerely yours, 
John Edgar Hoover 
Director 


--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---

STANDARD FORM NO. 64 
* 
6 
= Office Memorandum * UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT 
'» Tolson, 
E. A. 
TO 
: 
THE DIRECTOR 
DATE: September 25, 1947 
( 
A 
FROM 
: 
D. M. LADD 
SUBJECT: 
FLYING DI 
oo 
The Bureau was requested by the Air Forces Intelligence to assist: 
the Air Forces in attempting to arrive at an explanation of the above 
phenomenae The Air Forces indicated that the alleged sightings of flying Wize oo — 
discs might have been made by individuals of Communist sympathies for the ____——— 
purpose of causing mass hysteria in the United States over the fear of a secret 
Russian weapon. 
‘The Bureau agreed to assist in the investigation of the reported 
sightings, and the Field was advised in Bureau Bulletin No. 42, Series 1947, dated 
July 30, 1947, that they should investigate each instance which was brought to 
their attention of the sighting of a flying disc in order to ascertain whether or 
not it was a bona fide sighting, an imaginary one, or a pranke The results of the 
investigation conducted by the Bureau Field Offices in this matter have failed to 
reveal any indication of subversive individuals being involved in any of the 
reported sightings. 
The Bureau has received a communication in the captioned matter from 
the Special Agent in Charge at San Francisco, dated September 19, 1947, which 
attached a "restricted" letter that was furnished confidentially to the SAC at 
San Francisco by Lieutenant Colonel Donald Le Springer, A-2, Army Air Forces, 
Hemilton Field, California, a copy of which is attached hereto. 
It is noted 
that the letter, which is dated September 3, 1947, is signed "By Command of 
Lieutenant General Stratemeyer" by Colonel Re He Smith, Assistant Chief of Staff 
Intelligence, Headquarters, Air Defense Command, Mitchel Field, New York, and is 
addressed to the Commanding Generals of the various Air Forces. This letter is 
entitled "Cooperation of FBI with AAF on Investigations of 'Flying Disc' Incidents." 
This letter states in substance that it was the original intent of the 
AC/As~-2, Headquarters, Army Air Forces that whereas the ADC Air Forces would 
interview responsible observers, the FBI would investigate incidents of so-called 
dises being found on the ground. Further, it indicates that the services of the 
FBI were enlisted in order to relieve the numbered Air Forces of the task of 
tracking down all the many instances which turned out to be "ash can covers, 
toilet seats and whatnot." 
RECOMMENDATION: 
It is recommended that the Bureau protest vigorously to the Assistant 
Chief of Air Staff - 2. 
It is also recommended that the Bureau discontinue all 
activity in this field and that the Bureau Field Offices be advised to discon- 
tinue all investigations and to refer all complaints received to the Air Forces. 
4 proposed Bulletin is attached for your approval. 
Attachment. 
coe aca 


--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---

O40 NPE 
HEADQUARTERS 
AIR DEFENSE COMMAND 
Mitchel Field, New York 
In reply 
refer tos 
D333 .5EX 
3 September 1947 
SUBJECT: Cooperation of FBI with AAF on Investigations of "Flying 
Disc" Incidents. 
Commanding Genrals, First, Second, Fourth, Tenth, Eleventh 
and Fourteenth Air Forces 
ATTENTION: Assistant Chief of staff, A-2 
1. 
The Federal Bureau of Investigation has agreed to assist Air 
Force Intelligence personnel in the investi gation of "flying dise" 
incidents in order to quickly and effectively rule out what are pranks 
and to concentrate on what appears to be a genuine incident. 
2. 
It was the original intent of the AC/AS-2, Headquarters, 
Army Air Forces that whereas the ADC Air Forces would interview respon- 
sible observers whose names would be furnished by AAF, the FBI would 
investigate incidents of so called "discs" being found on the ground. 
The services of the FBI were enlisted in order to relieve the numbered 
Air Forees of the task of tracking down all the many instances which 
turned out to be ash can covers, toilet seats and whatnot. 
$3. 
It is requested that each A-2 informally coordinate and 
cooperate with the FBI, generally keeping the FBI informed of any 
proposed calls that intelligence personnel will make on this subject. 
Very shortly, with the separation of the AAF from the War Department, 
a firm policy will be established to clarify the liaison arrangements 
between A-2's and FBI Special Agents. Presently, it is considered 
inadvisable to promulgate a formal interim policy -- only to have it 
replaced in a month or so by another. 
BY COMMAND OF LIEUTENANT GSNERAL STRATEMEYER: 
/s/ ®. BH. SMITH 
R. He SMITH 
Colonel, GSC 
Asst Chief of Staff-Intell. 
ergot 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

STANDARD Pong 64 * 
? 
r 
Office Men... .cdum + UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT 
TO 
+ 
MR. LADD ot 
DATE: SEPTEMBER 23, 1947_, 
j 
Vy 
FROM 
: 
Ey G. eS 4 af | 
SUBJECT: 
INSTRUMENT FOUND ON FARM NEAR 
DANFORTH, ILLINOIS 
©, 
. 
A baycna, 6 
Reference is made to a memorandum to Mre Harbo from Mre Baughman 
on the above-captioned matter, dated September 3, 1947, The reference 
memorandum indicates that the instrument has been examined by the laborato 
and the laboratory had contacted a Mrs. Whedon of the Army Engineers and s' 
indicated that the instrument had been used by the Air Forces on tests which 
were classified as "Top Secret." 
The memorandum indicates that Special Agent S. W. Neynolds of the Liaison 
Section contacted the Intelligence Division of the Air Forces and was advised that 
Mrs. Whedon alluded that the instrument was used in "Operation Mogul." ‘The instru- 
ment was loaned to the Intelligence Division of the Air Forces who in turn forwarded 
it to Wright Field. The report was received from Wright Field indicating the 
instrument had no connection wi 
peration Mogul" or any other operation at Wright 
Field. 
It was classified as a hi 
in view of the apparent discrepancy between 
information developed from Mrs. Whedon and information received from Intelligence 
Division of the Air Forces that the Bureau might wish to pursue this matter further. 
Mre Zimmers of the Technical laboratory advised Mr. Reynolds of the Liaison 
Section that Mrse Whedon had told him that a Major Hopkins handled the Liaison in 
Washington for the tests in which this instrument was used. Ijeutenant Colonel George 
Garrett of the Intelligence Division of the Air Forces advised Special Agent Reynolds 
that he contacted Major Hopkinse He advised that Major Hopkins has had a great deal 
of experience in radio and along technical linese Major Hopkins advised Colonel 
Garrett that the instrument could not have been used in the "Operation Mogul." Hopkins 
indicated that from the pictures and particles recovered, it appeared to him to be a 
part or portions of an old=type radio loud speaker. 
f 
In view of the information received from Major Hopkins, Colonel ae 
stated that he was at a loss as to how to explain the actions of Mrs. Whedon other 
than to say that she perhaps gave a false impression as to her knowledge of the 
yy 
instrument and the "Operation Mogul." Garrett pointed out that in view of the 
FT\ 
report received from Wright Field, together with the statement made by Major Hopkins, 
he felt that there was sufficient evidence that this instrument was not used in any’ 
boy VE 
basa classified project and that in all probability it was just a hoax. 
te Ferd 
RECOMMENDATION: 
It is recommended that this memorandum be forwarded to 
the Technical Laboratory for their information. 
9) 
> OGL 
A) 
32 
- 
¥ DEXED 22 O0TER' 19 
a 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

LEGEINE 
i 
25 AN” 
RECEIVED 
c 
ADRS 
SINICA. . ABORATOS 
LIAISON SECTION 
“{ 
Bi 
8 
fT o2 AM *d7 
S MEPT ME yUSTICS 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

d " \ 
i 
\ 
25 August 19h7 
TSNAD2B/AG/bic 
DECLASSIFIED 
SUBJECT: Flying Saucer, 
Authority; 
TOs 
Commanding General 
Arny Mir Forces 
Washington 25, De Ce 
ATIN: AC/AS@2 
Lt Col George Garrett 
C_— 
il. 
The specimens of an alleged "Flying Saucer" brought to this 
Command by Colonel H, M. MeCoy, which were obtained by the FBI and given 
te LteCol Garrett, were examined to determine their connection, if any, 
with the soecalied “Flying Saucers", or any project at i AMC, Wright 
Fields 
The specimens were carefully examined by both techmicians of the 
Analysis Division (T-2) and Electronics Sub-division (T#3), Ths latter 
organization stated that these specimens definitely had no connection 
whatsoever with the "Mogul" project nor with any other research and devel= 
opment project of this Command, 
2. 
It is also the opinion of this Command that these specimens 
have no connection with the so-called "Flying Saucer" or "Disc", These 
specimens, therefore, are considered as part of a hoax that could be per~ 
petrated by most anyone seeking publicity or for any other reasons, 
3. 
The specimens shown in the attached photograph include frage 
ments of an undeterminable shape made from plaster of paris or similar 
ceramic and containing some electrical resistance wire for measurement 
or heating purposes. The condition of the ceramic indicates that the 
resistance wire was heated electrically at one time or another. These 
fragments could not be connected with any AMC project. 
‘The other articles 
at the top of the photograph reading from left to right are identi: 
follows: 
&. 
An outmoded type of magnetic speaker diaphragm 
mai 
Anum alloy, manufactured by The Wathaniel Baldwin Company of Salt Lake 
City, Jtah, which was first patented May 1, 1910. This article cannot be 
connected with any AMC project. 
De. 
The second and thizd articles are bakelite coil forms 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

e —= 
4 
l, O,AAF, Wash. 00° 
25 August 1917 
pjects: Flying Saucers 
wrapped with ordiuary thin enameled copper wire. These coils indicate 
that they were skillfully wade at one time but were crudely rewrapped by 
one not familiar with the art of making a coil, These coils also have no 
connection with any AMO project. 
c. 
The fourth article is a metallic box which is the remains of 
an electronic filter emdenser made by the Polymet Manufacturing Company 
of New York, Ne ¥. This article alse has no connection with any AMG proe 
ject, 
de 
The fifth article is the remains of a metallic magnetic 
ring that could not be identified as any part of any device used at this 
command, 
4, 
This information and attached photograph may be transmitted to 
the FBI to inform various agencies throughout the United States as to what 
action to take in the event other similar specimens are found, 
FOR THE COMMANDING GENERAL: 
H. Mi. MeGCY 
2 Incl: 
Colonel, Air Corps 
1 Photo &-1/2x12 
Deputy Commanding Generel 
“Flying Saucer" 
Intelligence (T-2) 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

ENCLOSURE 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

“ 
FLY WG SAUCER AWEGED SPECIIENS, 
2351358 


--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---

Of 
Memorandum ¢ UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT 
: 
Director, FBI 
DATE: September 15, 1947 
om 
FROM 
: 
SAC, Salt Lake City 
lat 
2) 
SUBJECT: 
FLYING DISCS. 
ie. 
(enna 
A 
Remytel tenth instant. 
On September 10, 1947 an i 
e 
ive 
to flying saucers appeared in 
Lake Tribune indicat ng, th 
young couples, Mr. and Mrs. GAYLON 
Mr. andMrs; RICHARIDIEMTERS 
Logan, Utah, ‘who had been playing 
bridge, reported that they saw three brief fliphts of saucers, the first at 
10:40 p.m. 
and two more before 11:10 
p.m. the eveni 
£ wel aber 8, 1947. 
This news'a 
i 
tI 
: 
F/HUGH 
» Sounders ON, and 
Mr. and Mr: 
i 
n 
r 
5 of 
having obs 
WERSON, when interviewed by an Agent of this 
office, advised that they, in company 
th Mr. and Mrs. GAYLON CALDWELL, observed 
approximately a dozen objects flying in group formation at about t+ 
r 
thousand feet in the air. 
They stated that they first observed these objects 
on September 8, 1947 at 10:30 p.m. when 
ir bridge game broke 
up and 
both 
couples 
went out on the porch. 
The ANDERSONS believed these objects to be similar 
size to pigeons and stated that they seemed to be rather 
ite and ill 
They informed that the objects could have been birds; however, they appeared 
to be-movins faster than birds as th 
circled 
city in anproximately one to 
two minutes, and then disappeared in a northern directio 
Mr, and Mrs. ANDERSON claimed to have observed no wing movement during 
the flight, and are unable to make up their minds as to exactly what they saw. 
Mr. ANDERSC 
nformed that Mr. and Mrs. CALDWELL are presently en route to an 
unknown city in Nebraska. 
Mr. KEITH HUGHES and JOAN CROOKSTON both advised 
that tt 
yy were unable 
to state how their names appeared in the newspaper 
havinz 
ob 
ved flying 
saucers inasmuch as neither had ever had the opportunity to view these flydngy~ 
objects, and the newspaper report was erroneous. 
Mrs FRED THUNELL advised that,,she, her husband, and five oth r 
had observed flying objects between 10:30 arid 11:00 p.m. on the ever 
September 8, 1947. 
She stated that tl 
saw five groups, each conts 
thirty-five to sixty small objects, which 
were rather yellow 
white in 
and 
were circling the city at a high rate of spe 
irs. THU 
stated that 
these objects 
were several thousand feet in the air and it was 
im 
sible for 
them to da 
rmine the size due to the distance. 
speed 
cloudy ¢, 
RECORDED [NDEXED 
(62-— 
Mrs. THUNELL i 
that Mr, 9 
ers ¢ ONAN HAT rl Mr. 
§ 
SON, and Mrs, BESS 
RICKS wete yA tes @nd’ observ hdthejfigitr 
objects; however, 
fon fugre gble“to determine 
what these objects might 
have been. 
{thin 
Nn 
| 
qj | i | 
DZ 
Re 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

x ‘i a squeals) 
as 
‘ 
ano 
i aa 
yA 
3938 
Igy 
LHungag TNS Ly) 
ee} yak! 
«Hid 6T ¢ fd ¢ 
‘\ Sow 
yan 
UIA 9 ay 
Lg ] F 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

and Mrs, 
NC Pe 
fing clockwise above the 
They informed 
However, these objects seemed to change in form 
to a group of moving stars. 
they first believed the object 
HALL believed 
these objects 
traveli 
It was determined that Mr. and 
HENDRICKS were not available for intervie 
Salt Lake 
letter of the results of 
investiration. 
information 
no further investiration 
conducted 
nuch f' 
ing 
evening 
to be 
jon and 
aster t. 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

427 W 3a Avenue 
Spokane, Washin; 
August 8, 1947 
Division 
The Pace 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

g saucer{" Steve immed 
ht the sedan to 
a stop, 
tion pointed by Karl i 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

q 
Post-OrFice DEPARTMENT 
tf 
BUREAU OF THE CHIEF INSPECTO! 
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR 
H. Barkow 
x 
one 
INSPECTOR 
Chicago 7, Illinois 
Case No. 56114-F 
rof 
September 19, 1947. 
LAKif SOrEST, ILLINOIS: Alleged violation of Section 2350, P. Le. & 
Re, dyes Are Foundations sale of informa- 
tion ‘on@flying discs. 
Federal Bureau of Investigation, 
Washington, D. C. 
Gentlemen: 
‘he subject involved in case of above description is 
C. 
WAStevens, formerly of Leke Forest, Illinois, who may 
also have given a Chicago address at various times. 
Can you advise whether you have a record of this man 
and if so, will you please forward a copy of same to me. 
Sincerely yours, 
GEN, Barke\ 
refed 
Post Office Inspector. 
a 
a 
INDEXED 
1S 
Ge 
Ng 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

Office Memorandum * UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT 
> 
zo 
? 
DIRECTOR, FBI 
DATE: Septeriber\13, 1947 
FROM 
: 
SAC, SEATTLE 
T 
SUBJECT: ~ PLYING DISC SIGHTED 
July 
29, 1947, ae 
FERRY, 
ITANA, BY KA 
RAMAN, ye Steve 
HERRMANN and Re Je 
| 
DDEN 
; 
SECURITY MATTER - X 
Enclosed herewith for information of Bureau and Butte Division are / 
copies of the following received September 2, 1947, from H. Re PETERSON, -AtHh/A0 < 
Air Force, S-2, McChord Field, Washingten: 
RELIES Sets 
letter to Military Intelligence Division, USA, McChord Field, Wash. 
from Re Je MADDEN, 427 W 3rd Ave. Spokane, Wash. dated 8/8/47, 
with enclosure of Madden's "Report on a'Flying Saucer'." 
No action being taken by Seattle. 
REOGORDED 
EEBshg 
100-18945 
Enclesures - 2 
ce: Butte 
As 
om 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

Tay 
iUNIIS TWNUYBIN 
O3AI393y 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

September 24, 1947 
Mr. T. H. Barkow 
Inspector 
Post Office Department 
Chicago 7, Illinois 
Alleged violation of Section 2350, P. L. & 
R., by des Are Foundation; sale of information 
on flying disos. 
Reference is meade to your letter dated September 19, 1947, 
requesting information regarding one C, W. Stevens, your case #56114-F. 
You are advised that an effective search cannot be conducted 
through the files of the Identification Division of the Federal Bureau 
of Investigation on the basis of the name only. 
If you are able to fur- 
nish the physical description of Stevens or other means of identification 
such as a registry number, a searoh will be conducted in an effort to 
furnish you with the information desired. 
¢ 
< 
sd Pe 
Tolson, 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

ae 
@ 
f 
Office Memorandum + onrren s...... GOVERNMENT 
TO 
: 
” DIRECTOR, FBI 
DATE: Sept. 12;.1947 
FROM 
SUBJECT: 
FLYING piss Reported by BRUCEYERUSTRONG 
and } 
TICHOLS, Seattle, Washington, 
August it 1947 
SECURITY MATTER x 
The newspaper, Seattle Post Intelligencer, carried an article in the 
morning issue of August 13 reporting the sighting 
of flying disks. 
The 
article 
appeared on the fifth p: 
nd 
headed "Blue Triangle LatestThing Seen In 
s", 
Under 
4 
ption ohere was a short wr it 
which stated, in substance, 
t 
one BRUCE AR 
a 
‘0 
echnic 
and @ number of other en- 
gineers at the Boeing 
A 
a. 
hed 
s 
ed 
ste 
1S 
ng object about 2:20 
p.m. on August 
12. 
newspaper report further 
ated 
that 
the 
ect seemed 
to be flutteri a 
2 leaf, and appeared to be a 
black or dark blue triangular 
substance. 
In th 
article also ap 
red another report of a disk supposedly 
j 
ed by one M. 
f. NICHOLS, 1125 S. 
W. l02nd Street, Seattle, and NICHOLS des— 
eribed it as a big ball reflecting light, giving it a purplish tin 
Interview with BRUCE ARMSTRONG on August 13 revea 
f 
was standing in front of Section D of the Boeing Aircraft Plant with 
other research engineers and had noticed a small black 
object flyin 
feet high, going south over Boeing Field runway. 
ARMSTRONG further 
interview, 
that the object appeared triangular in shape and floated 
like a leaf, and he estimated the ieee to 
be about fifteen miles per 
10NG could not accuretely deter: 
the distance betweer 
| 
but 
it is noted that 
Section D is ebout half a mile from 
Boeing Field where he supposedly 
The following 
this object; 
Mr. 
i. 
Mr. 
} 
STONE 
RECORDED 
Mr. 
INDEXED 
4 
Mr. 
4 
id eam 
The consensus 
pini 
was that the objec resenbid 
in flight and 
more like 
ce of tar paper than anyth ingiCT 
Wieliichtie object 
stg the end of the runway in Boe ng Field it climbed 
into the sky in a south- 
the Northwest Airlines 
orts of obje 
r 
of 
“such. 
f 
ld not sPgreny record of 
an 
item, but upon 
N 
f 
y se the ie the object was supposedly sighted, the 
LOCKWOOD stated tt 
about 2 o'clock in the 
S DESTROYED 
NOV 18 1964 


--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---

DIRECTOR, FBI 
FLYING DISKS, Report of 
8/26/1,7 
afternoon there were several pieces of burnt paper which flew over the field, 
and he did recall a large piece of burnt paper which the wind had blown across 
the runway and down the south end of the field. 
LOCKWOOD estimated that the 
paper was approximately three feet in length. 
Mr. GRANT stated that undoubtedly 
this was the object in question, and inasmuch as the control tower has a complete 
view of the area in which the engineers had sighted this object if anything fur- 
ther was noted it would have appeared in the log. 
Mr. M. A. NICHOLS, 1119 Ss. W. 102nd Street, was then interviewed regard- 
ing his report of a flying object. NICHOLS stated that about 4 p.m. on August 12 
he had sighted an object which he estimated to be about 35,000 feet in the air, 
which was flying over his home in a southwest direction. 
A neighbor, RAY STANLEY, 
also saw the object and STANLEY examined 
the same with a pair of binoculars. 
Ans 
to STANLEY the object looked like a white dock moving, cylindrical in 
hape, end reflected the light of the sun with 
a sory of purplish tinge. 
Other 
sibicsnee who hed seen the object at this time were a Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE KROGSTADT, 
of 1113 S. W. 102nd 
Street, yegeann and their version of the object corresponded 
with that of NICHOLS and STAL NLEY. 
Contact with Mr. 
THOMAS 
E. 
GERMAIN, of the Seattle Weather Bureau Office 
at Boeing Field, revealed 
that weatl her peviGens are released every six hours 
from his field commencing at 1:30 a.m. The balloons, according to Mr. GERMAIN, 
are of a white gum color and reflect the light of the sun at a high altitude. 
Although Mr. GERMAIN could not understand why a balloon could have been sighted 
at 4 p.m., he nevertheless was certain that, from the description of the object 
seen by these people, it must have been either one of his balloons or one released 
from some other area in the vicinity. 
No further investigation is being conducted in this matter by this 
office. 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

é 
¢ 
ya 
Federal Bureau ot Investigation 
United States Department of Justice 
422 = Federal Office Building, Civic Center V 
San Francisco 2, California 
September 19, 1947 
/ 
Jirector, FBI 
Attention: Assistant Director D. M. LADD 
RE: -REPORTS OF FLYING Discs 
a 
I am transmitting herewith copies of a "restricted" letter ANG 
September 3, 1947, which was furnished to me by Lieutenant Colonel DOWALD 
L. SPRINGER, A-2, Army Air Forces, Hamilton Field, California, which letter 
is designated to certain Commanding Generals in the Army Air Forces from 
Colonel R. H. SMITH, Assistant Chief of Staff =- Intelligence, Headquarters 
Air Defense Command, Mitchel Field, New York, concerning "Cooperation of FBI 
with AAF on Investigations of ‘Flying Disct Incidents", 
Dear Sire 
It is my understanding from recent Bureau instructions that we are 
to assist the Air Force Intelligence personnel in the investigation of flying 
dise incidents. However, it will be noted from the attached letter that it 
is Army interpretation that it was their intent that the Bureau would investi- 
gate those incidents of the so-called “discs” being found on the ground and 
apparently not those which are observed only in flight. Further, the atten- 
tion of the Bureau is respectfully called to paragraph two of this letter 
and to the last sentence therein which states, "The services of the FBI were 
enlisted in order to relieve the numbered Air Forces of the task of tracking 
down _all the many instaiées which turned out to_be ash can covers, toilet 
seats and whatnot." 
In the first place, the instructions issued by the Army Air Forces 
in this letter appear to limit the type of investigations which the Bureau 
will be asked to handle and secondly it appears to me the wording of the last 
sentence in the second paragraph mentioned above is cloaked in entirely 
uncalled for language tending to indicate the Bureau will be asked to oe 
investigations only in those cases which are not important and which are 
if 
almost, in fact, ridiculous. 
The thought has occurred to me the Bureau might desire to discuss 
this matter further with the Army Air Forces both as to the types of investi- 
gations which we will conduct and also to object to the scurrilous wordage 
which, to say the least, is insulting to'thé Bureau in the last sentence of 
paragraph twoe 
. 
/ of 
- 
¥ 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

hig ‘J 
LIUNDAS WNYBLN 
a Hd 62 
pp 3 
OSAHO38 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

Director, FBI 
9/19/47 
RE: REPORTS OF FLYING DISCS 
In the event the Bureau decides to discuss the matter further with 
the Army Air Forces, it is recommended that no indication whatsoever be 
given indicating this letter was referred to me by Lieutenant Colonel 
SPRINGER inasmuch as it would undoubtedly cause him serious embarrassment 
and would certainly cause the excellent personal relationship which exists 
between Lieutenant Colonel SPRINGER and this office to be endangered. 
Very truly yours, 
mA 
fe 
Gy gent in Charge 
HMK smhr 
62-2938 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

C220. 
Pb. Y 
HEADQUARTERS 
AIR DEFENSE COMMAND 
Mitchel Field, New York 
In reply 
refer tor 
D333 .5EX 
3 September 1947 
SUBJECT: Cooperation of FBI with AAF on Investigations of "Flying 
Disc" Incidents» 
Commanding Genrals, First, Second, Fourth, Tenth, Eleventh 
and Fourteenth Air Forces 
ATTENTION: Assistant Chief of Staff, A-2 
4 
le 
The Federal Bureau of Investigation has agreed to assist Air 
Force Intelligence personnel in the investi gation of "flying disc” 
incidents in order to quickly and effectively rule out what are pranks 
and to concentrate on what appears to be a genuine incident. 
26 
It was the original intent of the AC/AS=2, Headquarters, 
Army Air Forces that whereas the ADC Air Forces would interview respon- 
sible observers whose names would be furnished by AAF, the FB would 
investigate incidents of so called "discs" being found on the grourd. 
The services of the FBI were enlisted in order to relieve the numbered 
Air Forces of the task of tracking down all the many instances which 
turned out to be ash can covers, toilet seats and whatnot, 
3. 
It is requested that each A-2 informally coordinate and 
cooperate with the FBI, generally keeping the FBI informed of any 
proposed calls that intelligence personnel] will make on this subject. 
Very shortly, with the separation of the AAF from the War Department, 
a firm policy will be established to clarify the liaison arrangements 
between A-2's and FBI Special Agents. Presently, it is considered 
inadvisable to promulgate a formal interim policy <= only to have it 
replaced in a month or so by anothers 
BY COMMAND OF LIEUTENANT GENERAL STRATEMEYERs 
/s/ Re He SMITH 
R. He SMITH 
Colonel, GSC 
Asst Chief of Staff-Intell. 
Pm 
oeiR 
BEV 
rs 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

Zz 
(eye 
DISCS --Effective inmedi ately, the Bureau has disco: 
gative activities ag outlined in Section B of Bureau Bulletin 
dated July 30, 1947, 
ntinued its investi- 
No. 42, Series 1947, 
All future veports connect 
the Air Fo 
ted with flying dises should 
be referred to 
rees and no investigative action should be taken by Bureau Agents, 
5 a 
oR DED 
6S OCF 
6 1947 
ORIGINAL C 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

é 
é 
STANOARD Fy 
Office LVlemovradnduim ~ UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT 
Director, FBI 
DATE: September 27, 1947 
To 
: 
4 
IMAP Lac » Butte 
SUBJECT: 
pees NG 
DISCS SIGHTED MAY 5, 1947, 
BETWEEN ELLENSBURG AND SEATTLE, WASHI 
Warden JOMN HENRY, Montana State Prison, Deer Lodge, Montana, has 
advised the writer that while driving between Ellensburg end Seattle, Washing- 
ton, about 3:30 P.M.e, on May 5, 1947, he sighted a silver object streaking 
across the sky. 
This was also seen by MELBOURNE Me“HILL, convict chauffeur, 
and Mrs, HENRY, This object went into a nose dive and they thought it would 
erash, However, before reaching the earth it disintegrated, leaving a long 
pillar of “gas" hanging in the sky. It was particularly odd because this re- 
mainsd in form and did not blow away. 
It was observed by these three people 
while they drove from twenty to thirty miles, 
STITT 
ini teeta 
This smoky, gaseous pillar was a long ways off enti Yemained high 
| 
in the sir, Warden HENRY said that this silver object was traveling at an 
//’ 
excessively high rate of speed and when it disintegrated it was still a long 
sy from the earth. Warden 
tY said when he first saw it he thought it 
was 
sably a jet propelled plene but that he ‘couldn't tell except that its mo- 
tions were erratic. He said he had not reported it until he had noticed so 
much in the papers about these discs, Although thres people saw it, they de- 
cided that they must be "seoing things". 
The Seattle Office is requested to advise Mr. H. 
R. PETERSON, 4th 
Air Force, S-2, McChord Field, Washington. 
No further action is being taken by the Butte Office due to the 
time elapsing between the sighting of this object and the report. 
g ae 
WGB:LB 
ce = Seattle 


--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---

GARD FORM NO. 64 
DATE: October 9, 
SUBJECT PLY ING 
There are attached hereto, Photographs of various reports 
receaved by the Air Corps in connection with 
above-captioned matter, 
TOGA 
he en 
let 
@iol Aeant ¢ 
aids 
the Lisison Secti 
by Lieutenant Coleone] Re 
Ls Garrett of the Intelligence 
Vivision of the Air Force for completion Of Bureau files, 
RECOMMENDATION: 
It is recommended that this memoran m be made 
available to Supervisor R, G. Fletcher of the Internal Security Section for 
his information. 


--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---

