3$ 
@ NOL03S 
pve 
Ye 
ve 
oe 
UP 
rag? 
§ 
f 
{owl 
a 
fi 
PLE 
4 
atch a: 
Len 
ited 
iF 
4 
} 
3 
} 
maY 141971 BY 
f 
vec-vre SIVIe 
USE CARE IN HANDLING THIS FILE 
°°" Tratister-Call 3421 
BY F420) 
Scec 
| 
JAN 18 1879 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

3493850 |Fasdes, Busin, 
263,552. 
Brain fardeo 
| QL3s's3 
| 
35U 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

soci ror, a 
® 
rae 
> | 
* Office Men umn 
¢ UNITEL J2.:.88 GOVERNMENT 
To 
: Director, FBI (62-8389) 
pate: 
7/22/5h. 
/wilierson . SAC, Cincinnati (65-199)) 
ss 
:, TRUMAN BETHURUM; 
FLYING DISCS 
MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION CONCERNING 
(ESPIONAGE) 
Remylet 6/8/5) and Bulet 6/22/5h. 
Attached are five copies of a memorandum 
containing information set out in my letter of June 8, 
1954 with additional information furnished by THOMAS 
~EICKHOFF on July 2, 195). 
On July 2, 1954, although EICKHOFF had been 
so advised at the time of the original interview with 
him on June 7, 1954, he was again advised in accordance 
with instructions in reBulet. 
RCD:SAS 
REGISTERED MAIL 
ENCLOSURES (5) 
1 wwe > 
NOV 19 1964 


--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---

COPIES 
TRUMAN BETHURUM 
FLYING 
1 SCS 
On June 7, 1954, Mr. Thomas Eickhoff, 3721 
Tappan Avenue, Cincinnati 23, Ohio, Operator of Tom's 
Beauty Salon, Neave Building, Fourth and Race Streets, 
Cincinnati, Ohio, advised that although he belongs to 
no organization interested in flying saucers or discs, 
he has been interested in this subject. 
He said on June 3, 195i. an ad appeared in 
“Te Cincinnati Enquirér", a newspaper of general circu- 
lation in Cincinnati, Ohio, to the effect that on June 
11, 195 a program would be presented atthe Taft 
Auditorium in Cincinnati, Ohio on "the real flying 
saucer story." Mr. Eickhoff advised that this advertise- 
ment disclosed no sponsor for this program and it was 
only noted on the ad that tickets for the program sold 
for ‘2.00 per person and would be on sale at the Central 
Ticket Office in Cincinnati. 
Mr. Eickhoff continued that because of his 
interest in the subject of flying saucers, he desired 
to know the sponsor of the program and found out from 
the Central Ticket Office that the ad had been placed 
by Henry+tfaday, 36!) West Lewiston Avenue, Ferndale 20, 
Michigan. 
He said he telephonically contacted Maday 
on June 3, 195 and found that Maday was only the agent 
having rented the Taft Auditorium and that he was 
acting on behalf of Truman Bethurum and George Hunt 
Williamson. 
He continued that on June , 195) Maday 
called him back and told him there had been a dis- 
agreement between Maday, Béthurum and Williamson over 
Maday's arrangement for the sale of tickets of the 
program and the renting of the auditorium. Eickhoff 
advised that Maday at no time said anything to discredit 
either Bethurum or Williamson and indicated that their 
disagreement concerned only Maday's placing the ad 
in "The Cincinnati Enquirer" prior to having tickets 
for the program available in Cincinnati. 
270 NOV 19 1964 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

<r 
Mr. Eickhoff further related that about ten 
minutes after he had talked to Maday on Friday, June }, 
1954, he received a call from George Himt Williamson and 
a Mr,>Manspeaker, who confirmed to him that Maday was no 
longer associated with them, and asked that Eickhoff meet 
with them at a luncheon at the Terrace Plaza Hotel, 
Cincinnati, Ohio on June 7, 195). 
Mr. Eickhoff, in explanation of his interest 
in this matter, advised that he had read such books as 
"Flying Saucers From Outer Space," written by Donald E. 
Kehoe, retired major, U. S. Marine Corps, which book was 
published by Harper's Publishers, and a book entitled 
"Flying Saucers Have Landed," by George Adamski, which 
book is published by Werner-Lowery Company in England, 
and is distributed by the British Book Center in New York 
City. 
He said that he has also heard broadcasts by 
persons he considers reputable news commentators, such as 
Walter Winchell, Fulton Lewis, Jr., and Frank Edwards, 
to the effect that reliable persons have reported observing 
flying discs or saucers. He said contrary to these reports, 
the U. S. Air Force has denied the existence of the flying 
saucer and he felt that persons such as Truman Bethurum 
and George Hunt Williamson, in presenting a program such 
as that contemplated, were either truthful or they were 
frauds, 
He stated that if they had a true story to tell, 
then he felt it was of such nature that it should be given 
as wide a distribution as possible, so that the people 
might learn the true facts regarding flying discs. 
He 
said, however, if their story was not true, then the hold- 
ing of such a meeting as was contemplated would be a fraud 
on the general public. He estimated that such a meeting 
in Cincinnati might draw two thousand people, which, at 
$2.00 apiece, would result in a $1,000.00 take for the 
promoters, 
To identify Truman Bethurum, Mr. Eickhoff had 
with him two copies of the magazine "Valor," which he stated 
he got from Bethurum, this magazine being self-identified 
as the "Golden Times Weekly," published by Soul Craft 
Chapels, Post Office Box 192, Noblesville, Indiana, 
‘The 
two issues which Mr, Eickhoff had with him were numbers 15 
and 16 of volume 6 of the publication, the number 15 being 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

... 
S 
dated February 6, 195) and number 16 being dated 
February 13, 1954. 
The number 15 issue contained an 
article concerning Truman Bethurum, in which he is 
identified as a truck driver from Redondo Beach, Calif- 
ornia, and it refers to an article dated December 31, 
1953, which appeared in the "Daily Breeze," a newspaper 
at Redondo Beach, California, which allegedly contained 
a description of an encounter which Truman Bethurum had 
with a crew of assumed space explorers under the super- 
vision of a ravishing woman commandant in the Nevada 
desert. 
The article also reflects that Truman Bethurun 
allegedly was aboard flying saucers on eleven occasions. 
At the bottom of the first page of issue number 15 there 
appeared in what Mr, Eickhoff stated was the handwriting 
of Truman Bethurum the statement "This is a true story, 
a factual experience -- Truman Bethurun." 
The above mentioned article in "Valor" also 
reflected that Truman Bethurum is 55 years of age and that 
his residence address is 519 North Gertruda Avenue, 
Redondo Beach, California, 
Mr. Eickhoff reiterated that he felt Bethurum's 
story, if true, should be given wide publicity, but that 
if the story was false, then he should be prosecuted for 
fraud. 
He stated that he first took his information to 
the Air Force in the person of Lieutenant Colonel John 
O'Mara of Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Ohio, whom 
Eickhoff visited personally at O'Mara's home in Fairborn, 
Ohio, on Sunday, June 6, 1954. Eickhoff indicated that 
he asked Colonel O'Mara if there were such things as 
flying saucers and if Bethurum's story could be true, 
and he said O'Mara denied that there was such athing as 
a flying saucer and indicated to him that Donald E, Kehoe, 
the author of "Flying Saucers in Outer Space" was a fraud 
and that information is available in Washington that 
Kehoe is a fraud. 
He said he was advised, however, by 
Colonel O'Mara that the Air Force could take no action 
with respect to Bethurum or Williamson, 
Eickhoff continued that it was his intention to 
aid in the promotion of a meeting for Bethurum in Cincinnati. 
He advised that the original meeting schedule for June 11 
3s 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

e 
oe 
had been cancelled, and that he felt this meeting had 
such important information for the people as a whole 
that he was going to make every effort to make the 
meeting one of national significance, He said he in- 
tended to invite to the meeting all nationally prominent 
news commentators. He intended to try to get radio time 
to advertise the meeting but he did not wish to partici- 
pate in this matter in any way if it would violate 
security regulations in any manner, or if Bethurum and 
his associates were in any way fraudulent. He stated 
that he so informed Bethurum, Williamson and Mr. 
Manspeaker at the luncheon meeting which was held at 
the Terrace Plaza Hotel on June 7, 1954. 
They informed 
him that they were not afraid of an investigation; that 
Bethurum's story was factual, and that they had no objec- 
tion to Eickhoff's advising Government authorities 
regarding it. 
Mr. Eickhoff stated that his report to this 
office was part of his plan to inform all the Federal 
agencies he thought should know about the activities of 
Bethurum. 
He advised that in line with his contemplated 
plans that on the evening of June 7, 195 there was to 
be another meeting at the home of L. H--Stringfield, 
7017 Britton Avenue, Cincinnati 27, Ohio, at which 
meeting there would be Mr. Stringfield, Williamson, 
Manspeaker, Bethurun, Ralph}Zinmermann and Mr. Eickhoff. 
He said at this meeting they would plan a method of 
operation and make arrangements for this meeting of 
national significance. He said he intended to set the 
date of the meeting far enough in advance so that if 
any Governmental agency determined that there was fraud 
involved that agency would have sufficient time to act 
prior to the holding of the meeting. 
He advised he 
intended to keep a detailed record of all actions taken 
by this group, and that he would voluntarily furnish 
such information to the F.B.I. 
Eickhoff advised that he had not known and 
had not met either Bethurum, Williamson or Manspeaker 
prior to the events described above. 
He said that George 
Hunt Williamson identified himself as an archeologist 
and a writer for the magazine "Valor," who resides in 
Noblesville, Indiana, 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

8 
3 
He said that Manspeaker, whose first name 
he did not know, is also connected with "Valor" magazine 
in some way. 
He was asked as to what interest "Valor" 
magazine has in Bethurum, and whether Bethurum was 
sponsored by any other organization. 
He advised that 
he did not imow the interest of "Valor" magazine in 
Bethurum, and so far as he knew, Bethurum was acting 
on his own and had no organizational affiliations or 
sponsorship. 
He was asked as to what disposition would 
be made of receipts from a large meeting and he advised 
that he did not know what disposition would be made of 
the money. 
He said he understood that Bethurum had been 
on tour for some time and that the meeting scheduled 
for Cincinnati originally on June 11, 195) was to be 
the beginning of a new series of meetings. 
William Dudley-Pelley, Noblesville, Indiana 
reportedly operates the Soul Craft Press at Noblesville 
and among other pamphlets, published the weekly journal 
entitled "Valor", which Mr. Pelley describes as a "journal 
of the applied spirituality." This publication is said 
to deal mainly with practical mysticism, the spiritual 
movement called Soulcraft and the relationshop between 
earth man and the individuals arriving on this planet 
from flying saucers. Mr. Pelley is said to claim that 
these individuals arriving in flying saucers are of 
greater intelligence and learning than the earth people 
and are here to give the earth people intellectual 
guidance and spiritual endowment and guidance. 
On July 2, 1954, Thomas Eickhoff advised that 
no progress had been made with respect to holding a 
meeting for Truman Bethurun in Cincinnati, Ohio which 
would be of national significance. He said that Bethurum 
had returned to California but that there was a possib- 
ility that he would again come to Cincinnati, Ohio in 
the fall of 1954. At the same time Mr.\ Eickhoff advised 
that he had communicated with Donald E>-Kehoe, author 
of the book "Flying Saucers From Outer ‘Space" and had 
advised him that he had been informed by Lieutenant 
Colonel John O'Mara, Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, 
Ohio that he was a fraud and that information is avail- 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

4 
able in Washington that Kehoe is afraud. He said that 
he, Eickhoff, had been requested by Kehoe to furnish 
him this information in writing and that he, Eickhoff, 
had obliged Kehoe in this respect. 
He said he understood 
that Kehoe was going to Washington with his attorneys 
to take up Colonel O'Mara's statements with the Air Force. 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

- Office MemoFandum + onitep s ATES GOVERNMENT 
Director, FBI 
DaTE: 
8 /2/5, 
SAC, Cincinnati (62-0) 
vai 
FLYING SAUCER: REPORT 
INFORMATION CONCERNING 
Colonel J, M. SMITH, Deputy Director of Civilian 
Defense for Greater Cincinnati and Hamilton County, Ohio, 
ealled this office on 7/23/54 to report that he had\re- 
ceived a report of a flying saucer from Mr. CARL ROKEYSER, 
Route 1, Milford, Ohio. Mr, KEYSER said that he could be 
reached at his residence which is two miles east of Milford, 
Ohio, on U. S. Highway 28, 
KEYSER reported to Colonel SMITH that both he and his 
wife, at approximately 2:0 psm. on 7/23/54, had observed a 
silver circular or spherical shape in the sky which was 
located to the southeast of their residence, approximately 
forty-five degrees above the horizon, 
Colonel SMITH was advised that the report made by hin 
was being referred to the appropriate officials of the 
United States Air Force, 
I have advised the local office of the Office of 
Special Investigations at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base 
of the above, 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

< STANDARIS FORM NO. 64 
: 
y 
x 
j Office Memorandum ¢ UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT 
On 
7 
DIRECTOR, FBI 
DATE: 8/2/5 
SAC, WFO (62-0) 
Mrs. FRANCES SWAN 
MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION CONCERNING 
This interview is predicated upon a telephone call received by 
SAC L. L, LAUGHLIN on 7/29/54 fran JOHNSHUTSON, Security Officer, Bureau of 
Aeronautics, U. S. Navy Department. 
On the same date JOHN HUTSON was interviewed in Room 2912, Main 
Navy Building. Also present during the interview was Commander L. T. 
McQUISTON, USN. HUISON and McQUISTON furnished the following Seaey a 
~ 
They advised that the Office of Naval Intelligence had forwarded 
a file to the Bureau of Aeronautics with enclosures which had been received 
from retired Admiral HERBERT Be-KNOWLES of South Berwick, Maine. Accord- 
ing to HUTSON and McQUISTON, KNOWLES resided near Mrs. FRANCES}SWAN who 
had been receiving messages throug thought transmission. SWAN approached 
KNOWLES and advised him that "flying saucers" were here to help mankind. 
Information received by HUTSON indicated that KNOWLES became interested 
in the messages received 
by Mrs. SWAN and felt that the matter should be 
investigated by the Government. 
HUTSON advised that KNOWLES wrote to Admiral ESPEY, Director. 
of Naval Intelligence, on 6/1/5) enclosing some of the messages received 
by Mrs. SWAN. Receiving no reply to his original communication, KNOWLES 
again wrote ONI on 6/7/54. HUTSON advised that the first letter that 
KNOWLES wrote to ONI contained information that Mrs. SWAN was receiving 
messages through thought control from "outer space" and wrote them down 
as she received them. The letter, according to HUISON, stated that Mrs. 
SWAN would write without any effort on her part and would write continuous] 
for four or five hours at a time without getting tired. He stated that ONI 
I 
had in their possession the transmissions or messages that had been received ri) 
by Mrs. SWAN. 
i J 
‘e. 
\ 
HUTSON stated that ONI had advised that in the absence of any 
. 
definite evidence of conversations » they would do nothing in the matter, 
He also’stated that the Bureau of Aeronautics took no officialiaction in 
cage sts 
y 
REGORDED - 150 
; 
: A 
4 
iM 
/ 
gi 
P ie. 
2 - Boston rs Inpeke 150 
pial = y=7 0 anew 
2 
ix er SS al 
PK. 
1 so amiieeos4 
d 
i 
op 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

Ye Hing 6 £ ony 
ae 
rysot 
* 
I 
, 
Lu 
NUILUSS NOSIV 
_aannids4 ~ 
i 
ww 
we 
¢ \ 
ie WYSH 
|] EOF 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

WFO 62-0 
in the matter. HUTSON was questioned concerning the position that the Bureau 
of Aeronautics had taken and he remarked that he did not believe that this 
was pertinent. After further questioning, he subsequently stated that the 
Bureau of Aeronautics was of the belief that this was a matter for ONI. 
HUTSON stated that he "unofficially" became interested in the 
matter and at the invitation of Admiral KNOWLES » he went to South Berwick, 
Maine, where he spent 7/2) ,25,26/5) in the residence of Admiral KNOWLES.\ 
y {HUTSON stated that he informed Admiral SAUCEK, his superior in the Bureau 
of Aeronautics, that he was going to visit Admiral KNOWLES, 
HUTSON stated that inasmuch as KNOWLES had received no response 
from the Government concerning this matter, he began reading books on 
flying saucers. 
HUTSON advised that during the time that he was a house 
guest of Admiral KNOWLES, there was also present WILBER BI\SMITH, a Physicist 
of the Canadian Government who was also interested in flying saucers. 
HUTSON stated that SMITH was at KNOWLES! residence with his family and was 
there in an unofficial capacity. 
HUISON advised that during his stay, he and SMITH had various 
interviews with Mrs. SWAN and had had contact with the "outer space" through 
Mrs. SWAN, During the interview with Mrs. SWAN and the contact with "outer 
space," HUTSON stated that they sat in a group and he observed Mrs. SWAN 
writing messages that she was receiving from someone in "outer Space." 
According to HUTSON, SWAN informed him that the people from "outer space" 
could use her eyes and ears to see and hear. According to SWAN, this is 
accomplished by the use of a mechanical device and all conversations are 
recorded by the people in "outer space." HUTSON indicated as an example 
as to how messages were relayed, he stated that he asked Mrs. SWAN a 
question which she was to relay to the people in "outer space" and before 
she had time to relay the question, she began writing the answer down to 
his question on paper. 
HUISON stated that SWAN informed him that whenever she was to 
have contact with the people in "outer space," she would get a buzzing 
sound in her left ear to indicate that they were "on the line." HUTSON 
stated that Mrs. SWAN complained to the people in "outer space" that 
this buzzing sound gets very annoying and painful to her ear. She also 
stated that the messages had been coming since May 27, 1954, and would come 
at all times of the night and consequently she was losing a great deal of 
Sleep. According to HUTSON, Mrs. SWAN arranged a schedule with the people 
in "outer space" so that the messages would not interfere with her sleep. 
HUTSON advised that a schedule was arranged between SWAN and the people 
in "outer space" that she would receive messages on the following schedule: 
8:00 in the morning, 12 noon, 6:00 in the evening, every day of the week, 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

WFO 62-0 
FAS 
HUTSON stated that Mrs. SWAN's husband, GUY*SWAN, and their 
daughter, DAWLYN, had also heard the buzzing sound in their ears, but have 
not been able to receive transmissions or messages. HUTSON stated that the 
transmissions related to flying saucers, location and why they were here, 
life on other planets, and life in the hereafter, and prophesies in the Bible. 
HUISON advised that Mrs. SWAN could contact people in "outer space" by mental 
thought control. 
According to HUTSON, Mrs. SWAN stated that there were two space 
ships from which she had been receiving messages. They were described as 
150 miles wide, 200 miles in length, and 100 miles in depth. HUTSON stated 
that these ships are designated as M-4 and L-11 and they also contain mother 
\\ships which measure approximately 150 to 200 feet in length. HUTSON related 
that SWAN had informed him that there were approximately 5,000 of these 
mother ships. 
He stated thatWlAFFA" is the Manager or the Commander of the 
ship M-4 which is from the planet Uranus andS#PONNAR" is the Manager or the 
Commander of the ship L-1l which is from the planet Hatamn. HUTSON related 
that Mrs. SWAN stated that these contacts with "AFFA" and "PONNAR" were for 
the purpose of protecting our own earth from destruction caused by the 
explosion of the atom bomb, hyrdrogen bomb, and wars of various kinds which 
they, "AFFA" and "PONNAR," say disrupt the magnetic field of force which 
surrounds the earth. HUTSON stated that Mrs. SWAN also related that contact 
was made for the purpose of protecting the whole universe because if the 
"fault lines" break or go to pieces, it would effect the entire universe. 
According to Mrs. SWAN, HUTSON stated, "AFFA" and "PONNAR" are presently 
working in the area of the Pacific Ocean repairing "fault lines" which are 
in danger of breaking. 
HUTSON stated that both he and SMITH were looking for proof and 
they wanted to know whether they could contact the man from "outer space," 
According to HUTSON, SWAN advised that -he and SMITH could make contact in 
"outer space" on any frequency provided they informed her first of the 
frequency that they were to use so that she could advise the people in 
"outer space." HUTSON stated that in connection with his contacting 
“outer space," he could make no commitment as he did not know how far 
the Navy would go. He advised, however, that SMITH stated that he would 
try to make contact with "outer space" on Sunday, August 1, 1954, and was 
going to use a high frequency. HUTSON stated that to make sure that con- 
tact was made, Mrs. SWAN: advised that the ship from "outer space" would 
come within 100 miles of Ottawa, Canada, so that SMITH would have no 
difficulty in making his contact. 
HUISON stated that Admiral KNOWLES wanted to know if physical 
contact could be had with the people in "outer space." SWAN advised HUTSON 
and KNOWLES that the people in "outer space" wanted to know if they could 
provide them protection and that if physical contact were to be made, they 
would appear in a force which would consist of 5,000 "bells" or "flying saucers." 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

WFO 62-0 
According to Mrs. SWAN, these "bells" or "flying saucers" would appear 
over many nations of the world during the latter part of August 195h, and 
would come close enough to the earth so that they could be seen by man 
and that they in turn would be able to see people on the street. 
HUTSON stated that Admiral KNOWLES wrote a letter to MARGARET 
CHASE SMITH, Senator from Maine, concerning this information, who forwarded 
the information to the Secretary of Defense and copies were sent to the 
Amy, Navy, and Air Force. According to HUTSON, KNOWLES also wrote a 
letter to the President of the United States. 
HUISON stated that none of the persons involved in this matter were 
interested in publicity. He stated that he would be willing to assist the 
Bureau in the investigation of this matter if the Bureau desired, inasmuch 
as he believed Mrs. SWAN and Admiral KNOWLES had confidence in him, 
HUISON described Mrs. FRANCES SWAN as being of middle-class cir- 
cumstances, having a very modest hame with furniture below middle-class. He 
stated that she has no more than a high school education, if she has that. 
He considered her to be a very simple minded person, religious, a student 
of the Bible, and one who has studied spiritualism and other thought control 
systems. 
el. 
The above information is being made available to the Office of 
-Special Invesitgations, United States Air Force, and no further action is 
being taken by this office. 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

August 9, 1954 
Director of Special Investigations 
fhe Inspector General 
Department of the Air Force 
The Pentagon 
Washington 25, D. C. 
From: 
John Edgar Hoover, Director 
Federal Bureau of Investigation 
Subject: FLYING SAUCERS; 
MRS. FRANCES SWAN 
MISCELLANEOUS ~ INFORMATION CONCERNING 
On July 29, 1954, Mr. John Hutson, Security 
Officer, Bureau of Aeronautics, United States Navy 
Department, and Commander L. fT. McQuiston, United States 
Navy, furnished the following information to this Bureau. 
They advised that the Office of Naval 
Intelligence had forwarded a file to the Bureau of 
Aeronautics with enclosures which had been received 
from retired Admiral Herbert B. Knowles of South Berwick; 
Maine. According to Hutson and MeQuiston, Knowles resided 
near Mre. Frances Swan who had been receiving messages 
through thought transmission. 
Swan approached Knowles 
and advised him that “flying saucers” were here to. help 
mankind. 
Information received by Hutson indicated that 
Knowles became interested in the messages received by 
y, 
Urs. Swan-and felt that the matter should be investigated /|/) 
by the Government> 
ft 
U 
Hutson advised that Knowles wrote to Admiral 
Bspe, Director of Naval Intelligence, on June l, 1954, 
_— 
enclosing some of the messages received by Mrs. Swan. 
soardman 
on, 
; 
; 
* 
; 
Nichols 
Receiving no reply to his original communication, Knowles 
Shisha 
again wrote to the Director of Naval Intelligence on 
June 7, 1954. 
Hutson advised that the first letter that 
j 
cc - 1 = Records Administration Branch (0-6a routing slip) 
Winterrowd 
Attention: 
rat 
gecurity Division 
(Same date) 
Tele. Room 
Hellman 
AuG*s 9 1984 
n 
EHMisjrselk 
"| 
MAILED 19 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

Winterrowd —— 
Tele. Room __ 
Holloman 
Gandy 
Knowles wrote to the Director of Naval Intelligence contained 
information that Mrs. Swan was receiving messages through 
thought control from “outer space” and wrote them down as she 
received them. 
The letter, according to Hutson, stated 
that Mrs. Swan would write without any effort on her part 
and would write continuously for four or five hours at a 
time without getting tired. He stated that the Office: 
of Naval Intelligence had in cits; possession the 
transmissions or messages that had been received by Mrs. Swan. 
Hutson stated that he "unofficially" became 
interested in the matter and at the invitation of Admiral 
Knowles, he went to South Berwick, Maine, where he spent 
July 24, 25, 26, 1954, in the residence of Admiral Knowles. 
Hutson stated that inasmuch as Knowles 
had received no response from the Government concerning this 
matter, he began reading books on flying saucers. Hutson 
advised that during the time that he was a house guest 
es: 
of Admiral Knowles, there was also present Wilber B. Smith, 
— 
@ Physicist of the Canadian Government who was also 
interested in flying saucers. Hutson stated that Smith 
was at Knowles residence with his family and was there 
in an unofficial capacity. 
Hutson advised that during his stay, he 
ne 
and Smith had various interviews with Mrs. Swan and had had ~ 
contact with the “outer space” through Mrs. Swan. During 
the interview with Mrs. Swan and the contact with “outer 
oe 
space,” Hutson stated that they sat in a group and he observed 
Zrs. Swan writing messages that she was receiving from someone 
in "outer space." According to Hutson, Swan informed him 
that people from “outer space” could use her eyes and 
ears to see and hear. According to Swan, this is accomplished 
by the use of a mechanical device and all conversations are 
recorded by the people in “outer space.” Hutson indicated 
as an example as to how messages were relayed, he stated 
that he asked Mrs. Swan a question which she was to rélay 
to the people in “outer space” and before she had time to 
relay thé question, she began writing the answer down to 
his question on paper. 
Hutson stated that Swan informed him that 
whenever she was to have contact with the people in “outer 
space,” she would get a buzzing sound in her left ear to 
indicate that they were "on the line.” Hutson stated that 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

Mrs. Swan complained to the people in “outer space” that 
this buzzing sound gets very annoying and painful to her ear. 
She also stated that the messages had been coming since 
May 27, 1954, and would come at all times of the night and 
consequently she was losing a great deal of sleep. According 
to Hutson, Mrs. Swan arranged a schedule with the people 
in “outer space” so that the messages would not interfere 
with her sleep. Hutson advised that a schedule was arranged 
between Swan and the people in “outer space” that she would 
receive messages on the following schedule: 6:00 in the 
morning, 12 noon, 6:00 in the evening, every day of the 
week. 
Hutson stated that Mrs. Swan's husband, 
Guy Swan, and their daughter, Dawlyn, had also heard the 
buzzing sound in their ears, but have not been able to 
receive transmissions or messages. Hutson stated that the 
transmissions related to flying saucers, location and why 
they were here, life on other planets, and life in the 
hereafter, and prophesies in the Bible. Hutson advised 
that Mrs. Swan could contact people in “outer space” by 
mental thought control. 
According to Hutson, Mrs. Swan stated that 
there were two space ships from which she had been receiving 
messages. They were described as 150 miles wide, 200 miles 
in length, and 100 miles in depth. Hutson stated that 
these ships are designated as M=4 and L-ll and they also 
contain mother ships which measure approximately 150 to 
200 feet in length. Hutson related that Swan had informed 
him that there were approximately 5,000 of these mother ships. 
He stated that "Affa® is the Manager or the Commander oj the 
ship Me4 which is from the planet Uranus and “Ponnar” is 
the Manager or the Commander of the ship L-l1l which is from 
the planet Hatann. Hutson related that Mrs. Swan stated 
that these contacts with "Affa" and "Ponnar" were for the 
purpose of protecting our own earth from destruction caused 
by the explosion of the atom bomb, hydrogen bomb, and wars 
of various kinds which they, "Affa" and "Ponnar,” say disrupt 
the magnetic field of force which surrounds the earth. 
Hutson stated that Mrs. Swan also related that contact was 
made for the purpose of protecting the whole universe because 
if the "fault lines” break or go to pieces, it would affect 
—— the entire universe. According to Mrs. Swan, Hutson stated, 
—— “Affa" and "Ponnar® are presently working the area of the 
Pacific Ocean repairing “fault lines" which are in danger 
of breaking. 
4 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

Tolson 
Boardman 
Nichols 
Belmont —__ 
Harbo 
‘Mohr 
Parsons 
Rosen 
Tamm 
Sizoo 
Winterrowd —__ 
Tele. Room —_ 
Holloman ____ 
Gandy 
Hutson stated that both he and Smith were 
looking for proof and they wanted to know whether they 
could contact the man from “outer space.” According to 
Hutson, Swan advised that he and Smith could make contact in 
“outer space* on any frequency provided they informed her 
Jirst of the frequency that they were to use so that she 
could advise the people in “outer space.” Hutson stated that 
in connection with his contacting "outer space,” he could make 
no commitment as he did not know how far the Navy would go. 
He advised, however, that Smith stated that he would try to 
make contact with "outer space” on Sunday, August 1, 1954, and 
was going to use a high frequency. Hutson stated that to 
make sure that contact was made, Mrs. Swan advised that the 
ship from “outer space" would come within 100 miles of 
Ottawa, Canada, so that Smith would have no difficulty 
in making his contact. 
Hutson stated that Admiral Knowles wanted 
to know if physical contact could be had with the people 
in "outer space.” 
Swan advised Hutson and Knowles that 
the people in “outer space” wanted to know if they could 
provide them protection and that if physical contact were to 
be made, they would appear in a force which would consist 
of 5,000 "bells" or “flying saucers." According to Mrs. Swan, 
these “bells” or “flying saucers” would appear over many 
nations of the world during the latter part of August, 1954, 
and would come close a 
to the earth so that they could 
be seen by man and that they in turn would be able to 
see people on the street. 
Hutson described Mrs. Frances Swan as 
being of middle-class circumstances, having a very modest 
home with furniture below middle-class. He stated that she 
has no more than a high school education, if she has that. 
He considered her to be a very simple-minded person, religious, 
a student of the Bible, and one who has studied spiritualian 
and other thought control systems. 
The above data is being furnished to the 
Office of Special Investigations, United States Air Force, 
for any investigation deemed appropriate, and for information 
to G2, Department of the Army, and the Office of Naval 
Intelligence, United States Navy. No further action is being 
taken in this matter by this Bureau. 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

ce - 1 = Director of Naval Intelligence 
Department of the Navy 
The Pentagon 
Washington 25, Ds C. 
Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2 
Department of the Army 
The Pentagon 
Washington 25, D. C. 
Tolson —___ 
Boardman 
Nichols 
—___ 
Belmont —___ 
Tamm 
Sizoo 
Winterrowd 
Tele. Room —_ 
Holloman —___ 
Gandy 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

August 12, 1954 
AiR 
Mr. Roger L. Jones 
1414 Lake Drive 
Zanesville, Ohto 
Dear Mr. Jones: 
Your letter of August 7, 1954, 
with enclosure, has been recetved, 
I would like to advise you that 
the article you menttoned is entirely in= 
correct with reference to the FBI, and there 
ts no information on the matter which I can 
gtve you. 
Sincerely yours, 
9s. Edgar Hoover 
NOTE: 
This article was 
viously brought to 
our attention,-and the , 
ld advised the magazine 
editor that the story was not 
Bureau's part was concerned. 
retted the 
in 
r 
tissue, which 
not due 
for. several: mon 
yet. Enclosupe uras an 
airmail. stamped envelope, bems vsed (A 
repl 
Tolson 
PY. 
Boardman 
Nichols 
—___ 
ue 
Rg 
A 
Harbo 
__ 
Mohr 
Parsons ——__ 
ie 
tas 
COMM: —.FBI | 
Tamm 
ack. 
x 
oe 
een 26 2 
AUG 1.31954 
MAILED 31 
Tele. Room — 
Holloman 
Gandy aa 
f 
AUG 24 1054 


--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---

account 
aan oat 
. Harbo.——— 
. Mohr-——— 
, Parsons—— 
, Rosen 
. Tamm—— 
Mr. Sizoo—— 
Mr. Winterroyd- 
‘Tele. Root 
Mr, Holloma: 
Mila Genae? ce 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

AG. Wd9S 8 
G5 5 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

October 8, 1954 
x b2-% 3474 3Y¥ 
! 
Mr. Le 
P3 
ner 
4353 Dickerson Avenue 
Detroit 15, Michigan 
Dear Mr. Wagner: 
Your letter postmarked September 30, 
1954, with enclosures, has been received, and 
the thought prompting your bringing the matter 
you mentioned to the attention of this Bureau 
ts very much appreciated. 
In the event you acquire further data 
which you believe to be of interest to the FBI, 
please feel free to contact the representatives 
of our office located at 913 Federal Building, 
Detrott 26, Michigan. 
Sincerely yours, 
al 
John Edgar Hoover... ° & ey 
Director 
2 
oN 
4 
i‘ 
. 
uA 
_- 
1 
AY 
x 
ce ~ Detroit, with copy of tp tg and Y 
(a 
= 
Agony 
ATTENTION SAC: TherPetrott 
[Flying Sa 
eg 
Club 
JWAL 
ae 
is not identifiable in Bufifes. Neithervure any 
7 
any of the individuals who are listed as officers 
ive 
or speakers whose names appear on the literature 
Nebel 
forwarded by correspondent with the exception of 
Desmona@*heslie and Henry Madoyss 
Phése latter two 
individuals have been brought to the Bureau's 
attention before as having written material or 
lectured onthe subject nyo Aah Saucers. (62~83894- 
343 and 344) 
as 
x 
i] 
2 ponent. , 
COMM = Fel 
mw 
\ 
OCT1 1 1954 
MAILED 30 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

foots Lengel 
Bo 
afyeArs 
ESS 
log KA. 
ft 
> cas 
j 
pre Ls 
HUF 7 
Ea Ave 
- * f 
Aticd 1 Preh. 
nN 
pecorpie. of 
SSS eae! 
(9 
= 
S 
: 
) ick 
INEDYED 
- 94 
sp 
7 


--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---

THE DETROIT FLYING SAUCER GLUB 
presents 
MR.JOUN OTTO of Chicage 
Patent Development Engineer, Member of Chicago Rocket Society, Pioneer Space Commentator 
and Member of Saucers International -- who will speak on 
Z 
"An Analysis 
of Latest Saucer Evidence" 
(followed by audience participation from the floor) 
WEDNESDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER 22, 1954, at 7:30 P.M. 
The Grand Ballroom, Veteran's Memorial Building, 151 West Jefferson 
ALSO Laura Marxer will introduce the leaders of eight neighborhood groups who already are 
lookiug up ... other sightings will be reported. 
Our petition to President Eisenhower is 
ready 
for your signature ... extra copies are on hand. 
WAS 
THIS IS A SCOOP! 
A group of "HAM" operators, started within our Club, have made what 
they are sure is a saucer contact. 
It will be reported by Don Thompson and his friends. 
Our club is fast becoming Detroit's most interesting factual program. 
In presenting 
Mr. Otto, we are bringing a speaker who has just returned from an eastern lecture tour, 
where the S-R-O sign was out in New York City, following his broadcast interview over 
Mutual Station WOR. 
His talk will be illustrated. 
If you have heard him, you know that 
as a lecturer John Otto ranks among the best. Bring your friends. 
Incidentally: 
Keep your eye out for our own Detroit Flying Saucer Club magazine arriving soon: 
Contribution $1.00 
: 
Henry Maday, Chairman. 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

Here is the man who has coupled 24 years of 
profound research with native Cosmic insight! 
The Detroit Flying Saucer Club 
announces the distinguished presence of 
MR. DBSMOND LESLIE 
Noted Irish journalist and author; preeminent 
Saucer scholar; co-author of the best seller: 
"Flying Saucers Have Landed" 
who will address our membership and friends 
on TUESDAY EVENING September 28th, at 8:15 P.M. 
with audience participation to follow. 
Detroit Institute of Arts--Large auditorium 
(Entrance on John R, near Kirby) 
All seats $1.00 
** 
Box Office open at 6:30 P.M. 


--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---

DETROIT FLYING SAUCER CLUB 
$452 Cass Avemie - Detroit 2, Michigan - TRinity 5-7300 
FA 
acl President 
F 
Dolores My-ayne, Secretary 
ara(Merxer, Vice President 
John Cyhtictiman, Treasurer 
AN OPEN LETTER TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: 
Mr, President: 
Sept. 22, 1954 
As citizens of Detroit and vicinity, we request audience with you regarding the coming of 
Space ships to this earth. Many of us have seen these objects; so have others both in this 
country and on foreign soil. 
To us it matters little whether these be called "UFO's" (unidentified flying objects) spare 
ships, fireballs, flying saucers or any other*name. 
The point is that they are conti: 
ar 
coming, and they are being observed both here and abroad. 
It appears that our government with far greater facilities for observation than any indivi- 
dual is perfectly aware of such phenomena, but has adopted a policy of silence and secrecy 
in regard to them. 
We understand that certain individuals within the Defense Department 
are afraid of announcing the facts to the citizens for fear of panic. 
Mr. President, we feel that this policy is false, fear-provoking and entirely mistaken for 
the following reasons: 
1. 
We believe that these phenomena are of a magnitude and importance such as to 
warrant the utmost openness and cooperation between government and citizenry. 
We believe that the present policy of silence and secrecy is a reflection on 
the intelligence and loyalty of the American citizen. 
We believe that this policy not only encourages fear and lack of confidence in 
government, but leads to exploitation by unscrupulous publishers and opportunistic 
individuals who prey upon the natural curiosity of the American citizen. 
We do not understand by what right certain public servants, utilizing the tax- 
payers' facilities for information and observation, gather facts relative to 
these phenomena, and then fail to properly inform the public. 
Other countries have already acknowledged these phenomena and have publicly 
appointed governmental commissions to investigate, collect information and report 
to the people. 
Mr. President: We, therefore, call upon you, our trusted leader, to utilize the great 
powers of your office to change this shameful and unamerican policy of silence and secrecy. 
We ask that our government come forward and make an honest and forthright acknowledgment 
of these phenomena, and inform the citizens of such pertinent facts as are now available. 
In return, the citizens then would be willing to report sightings and contacts which other- 
wise would remain concealed beceuse of fear of ridicule or rebuff by government agencies. 
This cooperation between the government and its citizenry would clear the atmosphere of fear 
and suspicion, would renew confidence in our public officials, and pave the way to a better 
understanding and evaluation of these great phenomena. 
Such a clear acknowledgment,emenating from the head of our nation might divert mankind's 
attention from the spectre of impending atomic war. 
It could lift the consciousness of 
everyone on this earth to a Cosmic level where a complete new set of Spiritual, scientific 
and social values would be within the reach of all. 
DETROIT FLYING SAUCER CLUB 
Address 
Address 
Address 
Address 
Address 
Address 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

Of Memorandum: “UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT 
To 
; 
Director, FBI 
pate: 
11/2/54. 
rom Vi/A SAC, svincinnati (100-new) 
Ehiir 
Wu tere 
suByEcr: 
pee = 
RCH, 
»\ 
INTERPLANETARY 
I 
FLYING OBJECTS 
VU 
LEONARD H. STRINGFIELD, ec 
7017 Britton Avenue 
\ 
Cincinnati 27, Ohio 
\ 
INFORMATION CONCERNING 
O 
Remylets to the Bureau dated 6/8/54. and 7/22/54 
captioned, TRUMAN BETHURUM, FLYING DISCS, MISCELLANEOUS - 
INFORMATION CONCERNING (ESPIONAGE), Bufile 62-8389). 
Attached for the Bureau's information is the 10/1/5) 
"Newsletter" of the Civilian Research, Interplanetary Flying 
Objects, designated Vol, I No. 7, which has the address 
P. O. Box 
55 (Cincinnati, Ohio), and which identifies 
np i Aster uaetEL, 7017 Britton Avenue, Cincinnati 27, 
io, as 
the director.of the organization. 
On the first page ey 
of this "Newsletter" STRINGFIELD reports that he had a priv 
talk with Lt. Colonel JOHN O'MARA, Deputy Commander, 
Intelligence, U. S. Air Force, on 9/21/5) and that in 
essence Colonel O'MARA had told STRINGFIELD that flying 
saucers do exist and that past contradictions were unfortun 
There is also enclosed a newspaper clipping from the 
/ WL/ 
Cincinnati Times Star dated 9/28/54, entitled » JSaucers" No 
Myth, Says Researcher, 
This article refers to? the “Newslettday" 
encloséa and also reports on the interview of ST 
°L. 
with Lt. Colonel JOHN O'MARA, Deputy Commander, A 
Intelligence, Wright Field. 
In addition, there is enclosed a second clipping, 
this being from the Cincinnati Post of October 11, 195), 
entitled;pSee 'Hm?---Saucers Cover City, 
This article 
7s 
/ 
reflects that several persons in Cincinnati had cited flyin 
saucers and had reported them to LEONARD H. STRINGFIELD. 
RCD: BL 
Encls. (3) 
; 
i 
i 
RT 
Registered Mail 
f 
BS 
enete 
“ 
\Y 
DEST 
} 
/ 
NOV 19 1964 
No 
Hf! 
Ap 


--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---

é 
CI. 
100-new 
(CIVILIAN RESEARCH, INTERPLANETARY FLYING OBJECTS) 
The "Newsletter" and the 
o newspaper clippings were 
forwarded to this office by JACK*GUNDERMAN, 391) Teleford 
Avenue, Cincinnati 20, Ohio, under date of 10/20/54. 
Mr. 
GUNDERMAN advised that he is employed as a layout artist 
by the DuBois Company, Inc., 1120 West Front Street, 
Cincinnati 3, Ohio, and that he began work there on 8/19/5h. 
He advised that the advertising manager of this company 
is LEONARD H. STRINGFIELD who is intensely interested in 
flying saucers and has created the Civilian Research, 
Interplanetary Flying Objects organization, 
He advised that 
STRINGFIELD is director of this organization and is 
assisted by his wife, that he writes and publishes monthly 
the multi-lithographed "Newsletter," and that he claims 
that the publication now has a world-wide circulation of 
about 4,000 copies at a subscription price of $2.00 per year, 
GUNDERMAN further, advised that STRINGFIELD regularly 
communicates with FRANKSEDWARDS, former A.F, of L. radio 
news commentator, on the subject of saucers and that, 
according to STRINGFIELD, EDWARDS is also intensely interested 
in saucers, 
EDWARDS recently warned STRINGFIELD to be very 
careful or the Air Force would stop STRINGFIELD's publishing 
activities, 
GUNDERMAN also related that STRINGFIELD main- 
tains that the Air Force was responsible for EDWARDS being 
fired as the A.F,. of L. radio news commentator because EDWARDS 
used his program to publicize his (EDWARDS) saucer interest. 
GUNDERMAN related that STRINGFIELD states in the 
"Newsletter", and also personally, that the U. S, Air Force 
maintains a strict censorship of news pertaining to saucers, 
that the Air Force has several thousand saucer scientists 
working on a research project, and that any military 
personnel working on the project are subject to immediate 
court-martial if they reveal any facts about it. 
STRINGFIELD has also stated to GUNDERMAN that he be- 
lieves his home telephone is being monitored, presumably 
by the Air Force, and that he makes phone calls to Wright- 
Patterson Air Force Intelligence Officer JOHN O'MARA and to 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

ere 
wer: 
CI. 
100-new 
(CIVILIAN RESEARCH, INTERPLANETARY FLYING OBJECTS) 
FRANK EDWARDS from his office at the DuBois Company. 
GUNDERMAN continued that he believes STRINGFIELD is now 
afraid to proceed too much for fear the Air Force will in 
some way stop his operations and that EDWARDS' warning to 
STRINGFIELD was after the issuing of the October 1, 195h, 
"Newsletter" which contained the article about STRINGFIELD's 
interview with Colonel O'MARA, 
At the same time, GUNDERMAN 
reported that STRINGFIELD, in talking about the possibility 
that the Air Force might stop his operations, made a state- 
ment to the effect that, "The Air Force can't do anything 
to me. 
I'm claiming saucers are interplanetary." 
GUNDERMAN continued in his letter that another point 
which may or may not be of interest is the fact that the 
DuBois Company copywriter, HERBERT Ey CLARK, 4.97). Strathmore Yio, 
Drive, Cincinnati, is a close friend 
of STRINGFIELD and is 
interested in STRINGFIELD's organization. 
He identified 
CLARK as about 25 years of age and a graduate of Ohio Wesleyan 
University where CLARK claims to have been a member of an 
inter-racial social college fraternity. GUNDERMAN said he 
noticed that CLARK often brings up such subjects as the 
falseness of religion, that atomic and hydrogen bombs may be 
the cause of bad weather, and that colored people shouldn't 
be discriminated against. 
At the same time CLARK is active 
in the Methodist Church and in the Cincinnati Civil Defense 
organization, 
GUNDERMAN advised that he was furnishing the foregoing 
information because he thought that possibly the real 
purpose of the Civilian Research, Interplanetary Flying 
Objects organization might be to gather bits of information 
about a very secret U. S. Air Force Development Project. 
My letter of 6/8/54, in referenced matter concerning 
TRUMAN BETHURUM on pages | and 5 contains information re- 
garding STRINGFIELD's interest in BETHURUM and that the 
indices of this office at that time contained no information 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

e 
m= 
é 
CI. 
100-new 
(CIVILIAN RESEARCH, INTERPLANETARY FLYING OBJECTS) 
regarding STRINGFIELD,. 
This letter also contains informa- 
tion concerning a contact by THOMAS HICKHOFF with Lt. 
Colonel JOHN O'MARA, Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, on 
6/6/54. relative to BETHURUM's story regarding flying saucers. 
The foregoing is for the Bureau's information and 
this office is advising OSI, Wright-Patterson Air Force Base 
of the substance of the information in this letter and that 
no further action is being taken. 
It is noted that JACK 
GUNDERMAN requested in his letter that his identity be 
kept confidential. 
The files of this office reflect that JACK SPAIN 
YZ cunDERMAN voluntarily appeared at this office in December, 
‘I95I, and furnished a piece of literature which he had 
found at the University of Cincinnati, 
At that time he had 
no information as to subversive activities and no further 
contact was made with him. 
The files of this office contain only one reference 
to HERBERT E, CLARK, 
This reflects that he is HERBERT E. 
CLARK, Jr., and that in August, 195), as program chairman 
of the Pleasant Ridge Methodist Church Marri-eds class, he 
requested a speaker for 11/13/54. 
On 9/13/54 he was advised 
that SA MARK M. MeSHURLEY would speak to the above mentioned 
class on the topic of General Activities of the FBI. 


--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---

“CRLFO.@= NEUSLETTER@ 89 [= 
1017 Britton Ave. 
Cincinnati 27, Ohio 
October 1,1954 
Vole. No.7 
=> 
Civilian Research, Interplanetary Flying Objects 
Reply to above address or P.O. Box 1855 
Copyright 1954 by Len H. Stringfield 
EXCLUSIVE: PRIVATE TALK WITH LT. COLONEL JOHN O'MARA, DEPUTY 
COMMANDER, INTELLIGENCE,CONFIRMS THE EXISTENCE OF "FLYING 
SAUCERS" -- TRUTH MAY BE BARED SOON AS "TECHNICAL DATA" REACHES 
THE AIR FORCE, AIR FORCE PLANS COOPERATION WITH PUBLIC. 
The greatest story involving Earth and Space may soon be told. The "silence" 
group -- that official fear-faction of the Air force -- who for years fought to 
keep the truth from the public has now lost its anaconda-hold on accumulative 
evidence. Stimulated by recent events, the triumphant fearless-faction of the 
Air Force will take the benighted public into confidence. As Col. O'Mara inti- 
mated: we want to cooperate and dispense with the misconception that ''flying 
saucers" do not exist. Here is the essence of Col. O'Mara's statements, 9/21/54: 
Flying saucers ''do exist'' the Colonel told me, and he added, in effect, past con- 
tradictions were unfortunate. At this point I asked the Colonel if there were two 
breakdowns of saucers ...the interplanetary device and the secret American mis- 
sile. was first corrected on the term ''missile", then the Colonel said he believed 
there were ''three breakdowns" -- the third, ''natural phenomena." By such an 
admission, we therefore have these three breakdowns ...1) the controlled saucer" 
from outer space...2) a secret American saucer-like device and 3) unexplained 
natural phenomena. 
When I tried for a committal statement on the interplanetary "'saucer'' I was, as 
- 
expected,rebuffed, but was told that in their research they were "gradually getting 
more data.'' Then for corroboration, I asked if all the saucers seen by Americans 
were American devices and to this the Colonel replied: ''Definitely not! 
Something 
does exist,'' he said, which, of course, is diametric to all A. F. statements follow- 
ing Major Keyhoe's book. In this respect, the Colonel intimated that the A. F. plans 
to cooperate with the public ... and a statement will be forthcoming from the De- 
fense Dept. which will explain some of the past contradictions and release the de- 
tails behind many of the sightings. When I asked, again, about the 700 sightings a 
week, he told me that this would be covered in the A.F. release. 
Col. O'Mara and I discussed many sensative issues. Although he spoke guardedly, 
the Colonel was wonderfully cooperative, and I could well appreciate his position 
in relation to official security. When, for instance, I asked about the Earth Satel- 
lites, and the theory indicating they were "rocks" ( see page 3) he replied that he 
has not received word they were "'rocks.'' He said the scientist in White Sands 
"are still working very hard and have lots of things to work on.'' When I asked 
about the silent Mars Committee he explained that the astronomers have not issued 
a report because ''they are in disagreement" as to what they found. 
In my 26 minute talk with the Colonel we also discussed saucer hostility, mysteri- 
ous plane crashes, the Atlantic problem, and, whether or not the CRIFO News- 
letter was slanted in the right direction. Re:thelatter, the Colonel said, in effect, 
that it ( the Newsletter) was in the right direction ... 
Editor's Note: Our Newsletter, due to above information,was revamped the last 
minute. What was the first page is now the second, et al. 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

e 
@ 
-2- 
SAUCERS HARASS EARTH; FEAR OF WORLD PANIC FORCES INTERNATIONAL 
CENSORSHIP: Behind the Mask of Comedy is tragedy -- the tragedy of censor- 
ship; on stage is the ''Flying Saucer" whose misfortune of name has held it ludi- 
crously before the public eye since Ken Arnold announced "nine saucer-like 
things" flying near Mt. Ranier in 1947. 
"Saucers" in their true dimension are less ludicrous to world governments. 
Working in cooperative secrecy they have enforced a bowstring-tight conspir- 
acy of censorship. A recent example is found in this writer's correspondence 
with the Chilean Naval Mission in Washington, D.C. To quote their reply of 
December 23, 1953: 
"We are pleased to acknowledge receipt of your letter ... regarding the photo- 
graphs showing UFO's in formational flight, which you mention were taken by 
Captain Orrego of the Chilean Navy near Antarctica in 1948. 
"Regarding this matter we wish to inform you that recently we received a com- 
munication from Capt. Orrego stating that he had not seen any UFO's over the 
Antarctica in 1948, therefore, the photographs requested by youdonotexist...."' 
(Signed) Harold Nagel, Captain 
Chief of the Chilean Naval Mission. 
Going back into old files I find that Capt. Augusto Orrego said:"During the bright 
antarctic night we saw flying saucers, one above the other, turning at tremen- 
dous speeds. We have photographs to prove what we saw." 
And now, the proof of Chilean contradiction, thus international censorship. 
Here 
I refer to Major Keyhoe's recent book. He says: "Later, when I requested copies 
‘from the Chilean Embassy in Washington I was told that the pictures ( Captain 
Orrego's) were classified." 
Editor: For the pictures to be classified they first had to exist. Why, during 
December, did they fail to exist? Does this tie in with the U.S. Air Force's 
sudden security ruling, which I learned by letter from ATIC, Wright-Patterson 
AFB, dated Dec. 17,1953. They said, in part: 'In reference to your letter, the 
ATIC has been directed to make all information on Project Blue Book available 
to the Dept. of Defense for release from that point only ...."' 
What happened in those yestermonth skies? Why do our Air Force and Central 
Intelligence bend over backwards to circumvent the truth about flying saucers? 
Why do foreign governments self-contradict themselves? Are they hiding super- 
saucer missiles of their own... or, are they all just being cooperative to con- 
ceal some great American weapon? Hardly! 
The answer is in the skies today ... right this minute! Fresh reports come to 
my desk daily. They come from competent and honest people. While these 
reports are being written other vehicles are crossing the barriers of space and 
time to ''violate" earth's international boundaries ... to harass the paths ofair- 
lines, and with increasing frequency, to come closer to terra firma. Here, they 
hover over roof tops, '"'buzz'' automobiles and peer into house windows. Some 
cause destruction, even death. Are these the behind-the-scenes reasons for 
censorship? 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

@ 
eae 
@ 
THE EARTH SATELLITE ENIGMA -- ARE THEY MOSCOW'S... METEORIC . 
OR MARTIAN? Statements conflict, as usual. 
I first reported these two mys- 
terious earth satellites in my April Newsletter ... then again, following Lt. 
Col. O'Mara's admission to me, June 8, that a govt. project was tracking the 
objects but that the evidence was conflicting. 
I heard nothing more until Aug. 3 when Edward W. Hermann, special agent for 
McGraw-Hill Publications, told me Dave Anderton, Engineering Editor of 
Aviation Week, had received a report from Dr. Lincoln La Paz regarding the 
satellites, and, that it would ''appear in detail in a coming issue." In thata 
correspondent friend, Ted Bloecher of New York, tells me he tried dozens of 
newstands for the magazine, but to no avail ( indicating a sudden scarcity) I 
will quote the August 23,1954 issue of Aviation Week: 
"Pentagon scare over the observance of two previously unobserved satellites 
orbiting the earth had dissipated with the identification of the objects as na- 
tural, not artificial satellites. Dr. Lincoln LaPaz... headed the identification 
project. One satellite is orbiting about 400 miles out while the other track is 
600 miles from the earth. Pentagon thought the Russians had beaten the U.S. 
to space operations." 
Now, the rest of the story, thanks to Ted Bloecher. Says Ted: ''Being of a 
nature that is naturally suspicious of anything printed, I wrote Dr. LaPaz and 
requested that he verify this release. 
I received an answer yesterday. (Sept. 8). 
In his letter, Dr. La Paz regrets 'that Aviation Week's misleading satellite 
story has received such widespread and uncritical publicity.' Enclosed also 
was the letter he (La Paz) had written toA.P. Strangely enough, the papers 
were content with carrying the false report, for I've seen no mention of Dr. 
ha Paz's correction on this report." 
Following is copy of letter, in part, by Dr. La Paz, tothe Associated Press: 
"Scientifically and militarily, the search for nearby satellites of the earth is 
one of the most important on which mankind has ever embarked. It is there- 
fore unfortunate, although not surprising, that false rumors are bound to be 
circulated in regard to the nature and results of this search. 
"As regards the Aviation Week story on the satellite search, summarized in 
the A.P. release shown me, it is false in every particular insofar as reference 
to me is concerned.... No one representing Aviation Week has questioned me 
concerning any possible connection I may have with the satellite search program, 
and no one whatever has been authorized to credit me with the activities attrib- 
uted to me in the Aviation Week story.'' 
(Signed) Lincoln La Paz 
Director Institute of Meteoritics 
Your letters and clippings are greatly appreciated; each is carefully read and 
filed. Since the April Newsletter, more than 8000 letters have crossed my 
desk -- a tremendous load for just two people. My wife, Dell, handles all ad- 
ministrative details, subscriptions, mailing, etc. , while I direct the research 
and prepare the Newsletter. We are both grateful for your kind letters and your 
enduring patience. KEEP THE MAIL COMING, but we're afraid to commit our- 
selves ona reply. The Newsletter is published first Friday of the month. Sub- 
scription $2.00 a year, starting with June 1954 issue. Six month subscriptions 
starting in April terminate with Oct.issue. Mark RENEWAL clearly with remit- 
tance. Back copies of April, May, June issues available at 25¢ each. Foreign 
subscriptions (except Canada) are $2.60 regular first class mail. Air Mail 
add 50¢ extra per issue cf Newsletter. 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

she 
LOGAN, UTAH JOLTED BY VIOLENT EXPLOSION AND GAPING CRATER 
FOLLOWING MYSTERIOUS "STREAK OF LIGHT" IN SKY: First guess -- a 
meteorite, but as the evidence was assembled by foremost authorities, the 
theory dissipated. Here's the story, thanks to the help of Mrs. John German 
of Woodscross, Utah who probed the Salt Lake Tribune files for the early facts 
-- before SILENCE! 
On May 7, 1954 the Tribune reported: 'A ‘conventional meteorite fall' did not 
produce the crater found west of here Sunday, and probing operations at the 
scene have been discontinued, geologists said. In a 73-word statement, 3 sci- 
entists gave reasons why they ended their investigation, but it contained no 
opinion on who or what made the hole, or how it was made. 
"The statement, signed by J.Stewart Williams, professor of geology, UtahState 
Agricultural College, Lincoln La Paz,director, Institute of Meteoritics, Uni- 
versity of New Mexico and Clyde T.Hardy, USAC geology professor read: 
'In the region extending from Clarkston south to Paradise, exhaustive interro- 
gation of numerous persons who saw or heard the explosive phenomenon at 
midnight on May 1 has been carried out. The testimony thus obtained and material 
evidence recovered as a result of subsurface investigations at the site of the 
explosion west of Logan have disclosed that the crater was not produced by a 
conventional meteorite fall. For these reasons, operations have been discontinued! '' 
And from the Tribune, May 5: 'Dr. Lincoln La Paz spent his first full day 
here, working with Dr. J.Stewart Williams and Dr. Clyde T.Hardy. On his 
arrival here Monday night, Dr. La Paz said the hole must have been made by 
a 'whopper' if it contains a meteorite. They decided to place a frame around 
the crater and cover it with wire mesh. Workers will stand on movable planks 
and probe with a pipe. In this way they will know they have probed every place 
possible under the mesh. 
" 'My recommendation is that we excavate until we find what made the hole, ' 
said Dr. La Paz, who is credited with recovering the world's largest aerolite, 
weighing more than one ton."' 
The incident occurred on May | bringing ''500 phone calls" to the Logan City 
Police Dept. Residents reported their houses ''shaken"' and TV viewers said 
their reception was disturbed. A check made later with Hill Air Force Base 
and Salt Lake City indicated no planes in the area for several hours. A war 
veteran described the 16 ft. wide and 6 ft. deep hole as looking like a "bomb 
crater.'' Sod was found scattered in all directions for more than 100 yards. 
On Aug. 31,'54, 
I wrote Dr. Clyde T. Hardy, geologist who worked on the pro- 
ject, asking if any substantial evidence as to its (the explosion's) source had 
been uncovered. Following is Dr. Hardy's reply of Sept. 11,1954: 
"Reference is made to your letter of Aug. 31 re. the explosion and crater west 
of Logan. Although a fireball was reported by several people previous to the 
ground explosion, I am personally convinced that they were confused. One es- 
pecially competent observer describes a ground flash only and he was favorably 
situated to see all aspects of the occurrence." 
(Signed) Clyde T. Hardy 
Assoc. Prof., Dept. Geology 
(Ref. File: Case 20) 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

| 
on 
e 
roe 
JET 'EXPLODES'' CHASING UFO NEAR UTICA, N. Y.: The gamy but saucer- 
phobic press tried pitting wits with its readership. They handed the unsus- 
: 
pecting reader a front page story without the facts, then ( see July 3 New York 
Times) presented the facts in a separate story buried in the back pages. Reason: 
They feared public reaction to saucer tragedy, viz: Capt. Mantell. But, wits 
didn't pit right with Ted Bloecher and others suchas Lester S. Parker of Topeka, 
Kansas. They correlated the loose ends: 
Let's review one ''end" -- the front page story: A jet fighter returning from a 
"scramble" to investigate an "unidentified aircraft", plunged into tiny Walesville 
eleven miles southwest of Utica, about 12:30 P.M., July 2,1954. The plane 
crashed into an auto and two buildings killing four persons. 
The Air Force in Washington announced the F-94-C Starfire had been sent up 
on "an active air defense intercept mission. '' According to the U.P. release 
of July 3, "Air Force spokesmen said the cockpit of the plane ... became un- 
bearably hot during the flight and that the pilot ordered his radar observer to 
bail out ... then bailed out himself at 7000 ft." 
According to the A. P. release in New York Times July 3, ''The air base (Griffis 
AFB) said, 'that fuel in the burning plane apparently had exploded when the jet 
crashed.' They said it had not been determined whether an explosion occurred 
while the jet was in the air.” 
“Later,'' according to A.P., '!an AF spokesman in Washington said the inter- 
cepted plane was one that had failed to file a flight plan with C. A.A. or, one 
that drifted off its announced flight path." 
The U.P. and A.P. stories of disaster were essentially true, but because of the 
"disaster" angle they designated the pursued object as a "plane'' rather than a 
UFO. Ted Bloecher, who did some checking, told me that his friend, Ed 
Wilkenson, listened to a broadcast which described the incident, thus: ''The 
jet had successfully contacted the UFO but still could not identify it." 
But Ted Bloecher's real find was in the small item buried in the New York Times' 
(July 3) back pages. It reads: 
"A silvery, balloon-like object floating high over the Utica area sent residents 
rushing to their telephones to make inquiries of newspapers, police and radio 
stations. 
"The Utica Press estimated that more than 1000 calls about the object jammed 
its switchboard between 6 and 10:00 P.M. It was reported sighted by residents 
in a twenty-five mile radius extending from Rome on the west to Frankfort, 
east of Utica. 
"Col. Milton F. Summerfelt commandant of the Air Force Depot at Rome said 
the object appeared to be a plastic balloon about 40 ft. long and partially deflated. 
He theorized that it was making a gradual descent and said that if it still were 
in the area tomorrow morning a plane would be sent to investigate. 
"A Mohawk Airlines pilot estimated the altitude of the object at about 20, 000 ft. 
He said he saw a light apparently shining from it." 
( Ref. Case File - 21) 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

= 
A WORD FROM ''SILENCED" BUT NOT FORGOTTEN FRANK EDWARDS: 
Many hundreds of letters have been received asking for ''inside''details behind 
Frank Edwards' dismissal from radio. Many have voiced their anger and, 
many like Shirley Watson of Vienna, Va., have vociferated their feelings to 
Mr. Meany, AFL President. CRIFO owes a lot to Frank Edwards, so Iwrote 
Frank recently and asked him for a statement. Here is Frank's reply of 
August 26, 1954 in part: 
"The facts are that for a long time I had been fighting the encroachment of cen- 
sorship imposed by Meany. The final straw came when on Aug.2nd this year he 
sent me a memorandum imposing conditions which my attorneys regard as a 
violation of my contract ... and conditions under which I could no longer con- 
tinue to produce the same type of broadcast which had built my program to one 
of the top three ... according to AFL statements. 
"Meany's Aug. 2 memo notified me that the AFL censor would tell me what 
items MUST be carried. Still disguised as an 'editor' the censor would inspect 
the scripts and stand by to see that I carried the material as directed. 
"Am glad that I was able tobe of assistance to you in the dissemination of the 
material in which we both, along with millions of others, are so deeply 
interested." 
Best wishes,(Signed) Frank Edwards 
Readers will be interested to know that Frank Edwards has writtenan article 
entitled 'SPIES IN THE SKIES?" which is to appear in the Nov. issue of Real 
magazine. Says Frank: "It deals with some of the little known aspects of the 
greatest news story of our times.'' DON'T MISS IT! 
MYSTERY METAL IGNITES ROAD: Woodside, California officials and resi- 
dents were baffled by a shower of white-hot metal pellets, Aug.27,1954. The 
furore was triggered when a woman motorist saw a "circle of fire'' along 
Pertola Road. Later firemen found scores of small pieces of flaming metal 
burning the pavement over an area about 70 by 250 feet. The blacktop bubbled 
where the metal burned into it and grass fires were started where the metal 
burned along the shoulders of the highway. A resident, Ignacio Miramontes, 
reported hearing a loud explosion about 4:15 P.M., but saw nothing. 
According to U.P. release, ''Metallurgists and AF officials offered 
no solution 
for the white-hot pellets. "San Mateo officials reported the pellets ranging in size 
from a dime to a 50 cent piece, and according to Woodside Fire Chief, John 
Volpaino, 
the metal shower burned holes in the road surface a quarter of an 
inch deep. "I just can't figure it out,'' he said. "It has me completely mysti- 
fied. '' Deputy Sheriff Robert Benassini said the metal scraps had irregular 
marking and appeared to have come from a ''cylindrical object. "' 
An Air Force spokesman advanced the theory, the metal came from jet plane 
exhaust pipes which reach extreme temperatures in flight. However, a check 
with air bases disclosed no military jets were in the bay area Friday. (Thanks 
to Perry G. Powers of Duarte and an unnamed informant who sent in the story 
from San Fransisco Call Bulletin. ) 
THE "'SPLOTCHED PAINT MYSTERY": On the same date in Little Hollywood, 
in a community in the valley by the bay just north of San Fransisco County line, 
residents were baffled by.a'splotched paint mystery'! About half of the approxi- 
mate 300 homes inthe areawere affected. One white stucco house turned pink, 
a gray house splotched,a green house came out looking like a''marble cake." 
None of the residents had an explanation. 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

“7s 
THE CINCINNATI PAINT INCIDENT -- A PARALLEL PHENOMENON? 
Residents in Cincinnati, Sept.11,'54 had similar experiences. One Albert 
Allgeyer came home from work to find the bright yellow trim on his two-story 
house stained to a ''washed-out brown, almost black color.'' The stains wouldn't 
rub off, without taking the hard top coat of paint,too. 
It looked like someone 
had used a blow-torch, and in some places the stains appeared in dirty brown 
rivulets. Allgeyer was certain that the stains weren't there the night before. 
So was Howard May, neighbor, who received similar treatment. His house is 
trimmed in yellow too, as is another house across the street where stains 
appeared. 
On Sept.22, I talked with Allgeyer again and learned that the Kettering Lab at 
University of Cincinnati had taken air samples as well as specimens of the af- 
fected paint. A Dr. Hughes explained that the mystery was caused by the chemi- 
cal reaction of hydrogen sulphide which could attack the lead in certain paints. 
The Lab averred that the chemical probably emanated from the Millcreek Valicy 
which runs near Allgeyer's home, and which has since affected other homes in 
the area. Although a Proctor and Gamble doctor who examined Allgeyer told 
him that the chemical mentioned is not injurious to people, Allgeyer, five days 
after the incident complained of extreme swelling of both hands and eye lids. 
Described as some kind of allergy -- not hives, they offeredno explanation. 
Editor's Note: Remembering other ubiquitous mysteries, viz., pitted wind- 
shields, metallic pellets, curious ash deposits, I referred to a recentarticle 
written by Edward S. Schultz, of Buffalo, N.Y. entitled, ''The Growing Wind- 
shield Damage Phenomenon,'"' which appeared in B.S,R.A.'s May-June, 1954 
issue of Round Robin. In this, Schultz offers plausible and provocative theory 
. and the possible answer to these phenomena. Write Meade Layne, Direc- 
fon. 3524 Adams Ave., San Diego 16, California. 
CASE FILE REVIEW: Space does not permit the use of all the excellent ma- 
terial received. Sightings in the U.S., Europe and Australia are continuing 
and will be used in forthcoming issues of the Newsletter. 
C-22, Rockford, Ill...9/5/54) As they had done on many occasions, amateur 
astronomers, Peter Bartkus and Theodore McColm, were watching the moon 
through a telescope. Between the hours of 10:35 and 11:15 P.M., Bartkus 
writes: ''l-observed.the most unusual. phenomena I have ever had the experi- 
ence of witnessing.'' Bartkus continues: ''The moon was observed through my 
6" cassigranian reflector telescope using a secondary mirror. The total focal 
length for this setup is over 100", and with the use of 150 and 200 power occu- 
lars we got tremendous power with the least loss of light. The moon was in 
the first quarter and its diameter was 29 feet, 30 inches. We saw a spherical 
object ascending from the northern section off Mare Humboldtianum area. It 
was not glowing or brilliant, but seemed more like a dull reflected light of a 
planet. Its size we estimated at about the diameter of craters Pitiscus or 
Vlaco. At the time it disappeared at 11:15, it had travelled more than the29! 
30" of arc in about 40 minutes. We checked out the possibility of atmospheric 
diffraction in the sky or the scope by traversing the scope, and by changing 
the occulars. The object must have been a powered body because as the moon 
was descending at 1081 mph, the object was ascending and not following a true 
orbit. It was definitely in space, and in the same field as the moon, or near 
the moon." 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

28 
The drawings below are Theodore McColm's. They illustrate the object's size 
and movement at 4 minute intervals in relation to the moon. McColm, through 
calculus, estimated the object to be 12,500 ft. in diameter. 
N 
N 
N 
“oN 
oN 
Editor's Note: This incident and Case 14 transcends any notion that ''saucer'' 
vehicles are confined to earth's atmosphere, therefore U.S. or Russian origin. 
Unless these governments are secretly conducting interplanetary 
travel, Cases 
14 and 22 and myriads of others, add another positive link to the hypothesis 
that "saucers" are extra-terrestrial and are using the moon as a hopping-off 
point. 
C-23, Rome, Italy ...9/18/54) A.P. Wire: Startled Romans who saw a strange 
cigar-shaped object streaking over the capital flooded newspaper offices with 
calls. Radar operators also reported picking up the missile on instruments. 
Technicians at Ciampino Airfield described the "half-cigar'' as plummeting 
toward earth for more than 1000 ft., then rising at tremendous speed before 
vanishing. 
( Thanks to George Popowitch, Barberton, Ohio. ) 
An INS release by eyewitness Michael Chinigo states: ''What attracted my at- 
tention was the strange sound as it passed overhead. It was like thunder with 
a staccato effect ... a series of explosions that grew louder as the object got 
closer. This was followed by a dead silence as the thing stopped, or appeared 
to, at a height of about 6000 ft. Suddenly it shot upward and left an exhaust 
trail of milky white smoke. It went straight up into the sky. The Defense 
Dept. described it as a ‘clipped cone! with a smaller surface on the bottom, or 
as two semi-circular disks, one bigger than the other, with a bigger one on 
top. To me it seemed like an inverted sawed-off cone. What was strange was 
the object's ability to 'park' in mid-air for several minutes. The radar station 
at Rome which picked up the 'cigar' or 'cone' said it registered for 39 minutes.'"' 
( Thanks to Warren Morse, Palo Alto, Calif.) 
Editor's Note: Significant here is the AP and INS release. First they break 
us the news on the Labrador sighting in July, then silence, then the Norwegian 
space man story in August, now Italy. Foreign sightings all -- a subtle 
preparation. 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

CIVILIAN RESEARCH, 
INTERPLANETARY FLYING OBJECTS, 
ne 
H. STRINGPIELD, Director, 
el nati, Ohio 
AIT ATSC! 
JU DVLN LN 
Enclosures to Bureau: 
"Newsletter" of 10/1/54 of the Civilian Research, 
interplanetary Flying Objects. 
Newspaper clipping from Cincinnati Times Star, 
9/28/54. entitled, “Saucers" No Myth, Says Researcher, 
.. 
Newspaper clipping from Cincinnati Post, 10/11/51, 
I 
entitl 
LOO=-new 
ed See-.'Em?---Saucers Cover City.


--- PAGE BREAK ---

“Saucers” No 
Researcher 
Flying saucers are not a 
myth. 
At least, this is the studied 
conviction of Leonard H. 
Stringfield, director of civil- 
ian research, Interplanetary 
Flying Objects, 7017 Britton 
Avenue, a former Air Force 
intelligence officer. 
In a newsletter to be issued 
Friday by the research bureau, 
Stringfield reported results of a 
26-minute interview on flying 
saucers with Lt. 
Col. John 
O'Mara, deputy commander, Air 
Force intelligence, Wright Field. 
He wrote that Col. O'Mara 
“intimated” that the Air Force 
wants to “dispense with the mis- 
conception that ‘flying saucers’ 
do not exist,” 
STRINGFIELD REPORTED: 
“Flying saucers do exist,” the 
colonel told me, and he added 
+.» (that) past contradictions 
were unfortunate. 
“I asked the colonel if there 
were two breakdowns of saucers 
.. the interplanetary device and 
the secret American missile. I 
was first corrected on the term 
‘missile,’ then the colonel said he 
ieved there were ‘three break- 
doWns’—the third, ‘natural phi 
nofnena.’ 
yy 
such 
an 
admissio1 
Stringfield wrote, “we therefo1 
have these three breakdowns: 
“1, The controlled ‘saucer 
fr 
ter 
space, = 
. 
et American saucer- 
like device. 
“3. Unexplained natural phe- 
nomena.” 
Stringfield-continued that 
when he asked the officer for a 
definite statement on saucers 
from outer space he was re- 
buffed, but was told that Air 
Force research was “gradually 
getting more data.” 
WHEN ASKED if all saucers 
seen by Americans—700 a week 
were U. S. aircraft, Lt. Col. 
O'Mara replied, “Definitely not! 
Something does exist.” 
The Air Force officer further 
“intimated,” according to String- 
field, that an official statement 
will soon be issued by the De- 
fense Department “which will 
explain some of the past contra~ 
dictions and release the details 
behind | many (flying saucer) 
sightings.” 
can pretty well declare from 
evMlence in my files,” Stringfield + 
tol 
the TIMES-STAR, “that 
sonje 
flying saucers definitely 
come from outer space.” ayes § 
See 
ees 
2 
CINCINNATI TIMES STAR, CINCINNATI,O. 
928-5), 
Final 
25 
Date 
Edition 
News 
Section 
Page 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

See ‘Em?---Saucers Cover City 
Several Disc Objects Reported Over Cincinnati; 
Little Men Leave Craft in Germany, Says Here 
Mysterious aircraft . . . “orange-red col- 
ored, silent, disc-shaped and 60 feet in diame= 
ter,” were reported hovering 300 feet over Cin- 
cinnati Monday, 
This was the fifth report within a week of 
similar objects seen around the city, always 
traveling in set of three, 
A similar wave of flying saucer reports has 
cropped up in five other parts of the world, 
including Germany, Belgium, Egypt, Argetina, 
Lebanon and the French Cameroons. 
LATEST DISCS cited here were Ménday at 
5 a, m, by WLW announcer Keith Wildeson, 
He reported the incident to Leonard H 
Stringfield, 7017 Britton. Avenue, Madison 
Place} director of civilian research, interplane- 
tary 
flying objects. He said the current reports 
“seem to indicate a pattern” in the flight of the 
saucers. 
One of Stringfield’s neighbors, John H. 
Sundstrom, 710 Britton Avenue, spotted a 
formation of three discs Sunday at 5 p. m, 
STRINGFIELD SAID Cincinnati is sup- 
Posed to be a megnetic fault line and that per- 
haps the saucers come here to recharge, 
3 
In Muenster, Germany, 42-year-old movie 
Projectionist Franz Hoge told the news agency 
DPA that he saw a “flying saucer” 
field and peculiarly shaped creatures get out, 
Hoge said he noticed a bright blue light 
and thought at first it came from a crashed 
airplane. On closer examination, he declared, 
he discovered a “cigar-shaped” craft hovering 
about six feet above the ground and giving off 
See 
blue radiance which nearly blinded 
Then, the movie projectionist added} “he 
suddenly sighted four creatures about thred and 
one-half feet in height. 
He said they Jhad 
“thick-set bodies, oversized heads and delicate 
legs” and wore rubbi 
e clothin; 
Titi CINCINNATI POST 
Date 
Eqition 
10-11-54, 
News 
Edge 
Section 
7 
Final 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

Nichols 
z 
Belmont —__— 
Harbo 
Winterrowd — 
Tele. Room — 
Holloman — 
Gandy —_ 
100-New) 
November 
Ae) 
He 
PIELD, Director, 
7017 Britton Avenue 
Cincinnati 27, 
MISCE 
us 
{ATION CONCERNING 
Reurlet 11/2/5h. 
You are instructed to forward to the Bureau 
by November 26, 1954, @ memorandum suitable for dis- 
emination containing the pertinent information in 
ur referenced letter inoorder thet it can be dis- 
inated by the Bureau to OSI headquarters and to 
the Department. 
Copies of the enclosures forwarded 
reau with your referenced let will be 
furnished to OSI and to the Department by the Bureau 
as enclosures to the memorandum being prepered by yous 
EHM 
: baw 
(4) 4 4) 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

pS. Wd €S G a AON 
gaiusar 38 4430S 
a 
Wooy Wr 3h 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

act“ svinogno 
ron no. 84 
: @ 
@ 
Office. Memorandum f- UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT 
To: 
Director, FBI (62-8389)) 
DATE: 11/22/Sh, 
FROM fp. SAC, Cincinnati (100-11671) 
SUBJECT: CIVILIAN RESEARCH, 
INTERPLANETARY FLYING OBJECTS 
LEONARD H. STRINGFIELD, Director 
7017 Britton Avenue 
Cincinnati 27, Ohio 
MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION CONCERNING 
Rebulet dated 11/12/5). 
Attached is a memorandum containing the 
pertinent information contained in mylet of 11/2/5. 
RCD:SAS 
ENCLOSURE 
REGISTERED MAIL 
RECORDED. 
44 
IND| EXED | 7) 
As v 


--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---

CIVILIAN RESEARCH, 
INTERPLANETARY FLYING OBJECTS 
LEONARD H. STRINGFIELD, 
Director, 
7017 Britton Avenue 
Cincinnati 27, Ohio 
A source, 
of unknown reliability, an acquain- 
tance of LEONARD H-PSTRINGFIELD who is the Director of 
the captioned organization Civilian Research, Int er- 
planetary Flying Objects, in October, 195) advised that 
STRINGFIELD created this organization due to his intense 
interest in flying saucers. 
This source advised that 
STRINGFIELD is the Director of the organization and is 
assisted by his wife, and that STRINGFIELD writes and 
publishes monthly the multi-lithographed "Newsletter" 
of the organization. He uses the "Newsletter" to report 
news pertaining to the sightings of flying saucers and 
he claims the "Newsletter" now has a world-wide circula- 
tion of about 4,000 copies. 
The "Newsletter" sells at the 
subscription price of $2.00 per year. 
The same source furnished a copy of the “News- 
letter" dated October 1, 195, which issue is designated 
Volume 1, Number 7, and carries the address Post Office 
Box 1855 (Cincinnati, Ohio). 
This issue identifies 
LEONARD H. STRINGFIELD, address as captioned above, as 
the Director of the organization and reports, that he had 
a private talk with Lieutenant Colonel JORINQ'MARA, Deputy 
Commander, Intelligence, United States Air Force, on 
September 21, 1954, and that in essence Colonel O'MARA 
told STRINGFIELD that flying saucers do exist and that 
past contradictions were unfortunate. 
It is noted that the final edition of the 
Cincinnati "Times Star", a newspaper of general circu- 
lation in Cincinnati, Ohio, in its issue of September 28, 
1954. on Page 25, carried an article entitled "Saucers, 
No Myth, Says Researcher". 
This article refers to the 
ai 
1@2 IPE Ota+ 
DATE. FORW. 
WE: 
Lteirial, fheeursty 
*= 
pes # 
J 
st 
- 
-4t 
270 NOV 19 1964 
aceney L026 
7 /P 
haeul COST(0--) 
bib. 
REQ. REC'D LEE eat 
G Ciro 
(0-6) - 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

October 1, 1954 issue of the "Newsletter", supra, and also 
reports on STRINGFIELD's interview with Lieutenant Colonel 
JOHN O'MARA, Deputy Commander, Air Force Intelligence, 
Wright Field (Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Ohio). 
The same source also rapartea tbat STRINGFIELD 
regularly communicates with FRANK MSQWARDS, former A. F. 
of L. radio news commentator, on the subject of saucers 
and that, according to STRINGFIELD, EDWARDS is also 
intensely interested in saucers. 
EDWARDS recently warned 
STRINGFIELD to be very careful or the Air Force would stop 
STRINGFIELD's publishing activities. 
This source further 
reported that STRINGFIELD maintains that the U. S. Air 
Force was responsible for EDWARDS being fired by the A. F. 
of L. as its radio news commentator because EDWARDS used 
his program to publicize his (EDWARDS!) saucer interest. 
This source further advised that STRINGFIELD 
has stated in his "Newsletter" and also personally that 
the U. S. Air Force maintains a strict censorship of news 
pertaining to saucers, that the Air Force has several 
thousand saucer scientists working on a research project 
and that any military personnel working on the project 
are subject to immediate court-martial if they reveal any 
facts about it. 
It was also related by this source that STRING- 
FIELD has stated that he believes his home telephone is 
ppoing monitored, presumably by the Air Force, and that he there- 
ore, makes his phone calls to Lieutenant Colonel O'MARA 
\ 9 at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base and to FRANK EDWARDS 
y o, from his office at the DuBois Company, Inc., 1120 West 
¢ | Front Street, Cincinnati 3, Ohio, where he is employed as 
; 
the Advertising Manager. 
This source was of the opinion 
ythat STRINGFPIELD is now afraid to proceed too much for fear 
P| the U. S. Air Force will in some way stop his operations 
” 
and that EDWARDS' warning to STRINGFIELD came after STRING- 
Z\ FIELD had issued the October 1, 195 "Newsletter" concerning 
his talk with Colonel O'MARA. 
At the same time, this source 
continued, STRINGFIELD in talking about the possibility 
that the U. S. Air Force might stop his operations, made a 
statement to the effect, “The Air Force can't do anything 
to me. 
I'm claiming saucers are interplanetary." 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

This informant advised that although he had 
no facts to suggest this possibility, the possibility 
had occurred to him that the real purpose of the above 
organization might be to gather bits of information about 
a very secret U. S. Air Force Development Project. 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

Tolson 
Boardman 
Nichols 
Belmont 
Harbo 
Nohe 
Parsons 
Rosen 
Tamm 
Sizoo 
Winterrowd 
Tele, Room 
Hollomaw 
Gandy 
Firkole Br 
lengarifs, 
Ireland 
ated Qetober 
been received. 
ince your comnunication » 
ental agency, 
I 
@ 
thank you 
that 
John Ed 
pire 
cc - Legal Attache, London, England , 
with copy of. Rnebming. 
and © oft est be-acl osures 
ce - Foreign Liaison Desk 
Copies of incoming and enclosures sent by form to the 
” 
Office of Special Investigations, POPOL REN of the 
Air Force. 
My 
; DCL:es 
(6) 
§ 
MAILED 24 


--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---

ROME DAILY AMERICAN — 
Tuesday, September 28, 1954 
lWindshield ‘Cancer’ Epidemic 
orthern . 
4 
i 
losions 
windshield exp! 
; 
* 
of shattering glass 
! 
“purricane path” of s! 
h. A Unit 
Any appeared heading port 
s0-run 
SSS! 
to Rome al 
then started north again. with the 
last case being noted one week ago 
at Modena, on the southern edge 
of the 
Reser valle: 
In foe ke the mystezy 
has left 
sources of stunned motorists, many 
cut by glass, describing the pheno- 
menon to puzzled authorities. 
They were driv.ng along, sober 
folk with nothing unusual visible 
before them, when 
The “explojed” 
Mysterious 
More than 
once a serious crackup has been 
narrowly averted. 
What causes it? 
No one seems 
to know. 
Italians call it “cancer 
of the windshield.” In tts course 
across Italy, the “disease,” which 
first. 
appeared to. strike 
ica: 
otorists in no) 
3 i 
cored 
“Tron Automobiles to Tielude 
streetcars and houses. 
It has ocurred by day and night 
and seems unrelated to weather, 
speed or age of vehicle. 
Following its June appearance 
in the Italian Piedmont, where it 
struck four cars in an area of a 
hunired miles, the epidemic mov- 
ed east and south, hit Rome a week 
later. The phenomenon then mov- 
ed north, blasting the front glass 
of a big red tourist bus in Genoa. 
Latest case, still further north, 
was the literal explosion of the 
windshield glass of Di. Martino Fa- 
rinetti_ at Modena. 
Dr. Farinetti, 
€n route to a clinic, was cut in the 
face and momentarily lost control 
of the car. Attemping to brake to 
a stop, he spun around and nearly 
went over in a dit 


--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---

é Fesfeate (Sak, 
oF 
Mong atieff Co Cosh 
aw) 
Sette ay.) 95d. 
Wo. D Obras Hoses 
eae 
Beas der 
Sp. 
Cheae, Was pape fh Came/ lant. 
ee a SIRS cwbbenly Atrmsmbeped gt 
aban) 
K pan hash Ave Thad G he agers 
Carped mar plated 7, @ 
ss | og fagesse 
n 4 
4 
5 
ES 
4 r 
i) 
CORRER 
“I-2y 
fhew sn” 
i 
: igen and hachin yin 
» 
J 
27 DEG 
1 -1954 
45 
ti) 
4 
ard dente, WALL perrccrthl at 
LHG i 
= 
—. 
Prey 
NEAL, BEE Conmethon telugbar 
"De. 
Fee 6 REO 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

A 
y 
. 
fi 
) 
A 
Dans 
; 
Aerntha sf gQoorw. 
& ee 
Card Prt Lena’ 
Uv arco po how prading at along 
vor AAA sha 
AAMT erenty Merc who 
Yf 
Y ove Mek ok Aft AVOV Re hilt 
( 
(hte) Fel 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

sanor-uN 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

"STANDARD FORM No. 64 
4 
@ 
| 
Office MinSandum ™ UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT: 
COPIES DESTR 
2.70 NOV 19 1964 
DATE: 
ee 
17] CONTAINED 


--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---

ying saucers. 
TER 
duties would 
roup, the 
two years 
1S 
5 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

urer 


--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---

Tolson 
Boardman 
Nichols 
Belmont 
Harbo 
Mohr 
Parsons — 
Rosen 
Winterrowd 
Tele. Room __ 
Holloman 
Gandy 
(65-2677) (original and one) 
December 18, 1954 
(62-83894) 
; 
ah 
DETR: 
FLYING SAUCER CLUB 
ESPIONAGE - X 
Reurlet 11/30/54. You are instructed to 
forward to the Bureau a memorandum or report suitable 
for dissemination containing the pen®inent information 
set forth tn referenced letter,in 
that tt can 
be dissemina 
by the Bureau tog 
A 
Internal Security Division of the) 
I 
Bt of Justice. 
In view of the facts set forth in* 


--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---

Office Fk, Se Oe * UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT 
: t 
DATE: 
TO 
FROM ee 
~ 
SUBJECT: 
Z 
/eORDED ‘fil 
conebere 
NDEXEp . % 
8 NOV-30.1954 


--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---

~ 
vTige and duplicate 
l-yellow 
l-Liaison Sect. tickler 
l-Mr. Mannion 
RECORDED 
- 3b 
Dates 
December 9, 1954 
Toz 
Director of Special Investigations 
The Inspector General 
Department of the Air Force 
Tre Pentagon 
Washington 25, De Co 
Join Eégaer Hoover, Director 
Federal Bureau of Investigation 
Subject: FLYING SAUCERS 
This Bureau's Office at Phoeniz, Arizona, received 
from the Mayor of Tucson, Arizona, a fora letter whitch he 
received from “Aerial Phenomena Iavestigator,” 69 Stamford 
Hillis London, We 16, England. 
The envelope containing the 
Jorn letter was postmarked "Stoke, Newington, 10-26-54," The 
Jorm letter with a typewritten note bearing the signature of 
Haroid Mattan, who identified hiuself as "Aerial Phenomena 
Investigator,” seeks information regarding the sighting of 
Jiying saucers. Mattan indicated that the purpose of hte 
inquiry was "tn order to bring my reports and ftling system 
up to date tt would be very much appreciated tf you would 
kindly complete the enclosed jora and return same to me." 
The form calla for the following type data concerning 
any flying saucers observed: 
"Time of sighting, size, shape, 
composttton, speed, altitude, directton, maneuvre pattern, color, 
sound, length of time observed, sky conditions, visibility, 
direction of ground wind,” On the form te provided a space for 
the name, age and address of tie person executing the corm and 
@ space for general renarke. 
Mattan is unknown in the ftles of thts Bureau. 
The 
above informatton has been furnished your Offices 
Williams 
AFB and Luke A72s 
eb 
es a 
% 
\ wh 
o 
ali? 
(Ap 
aaa Legal Attache (See noté om! P, 2) 
+ ATR COURIER 
Belmont 
Harbo______ | ‘London, Englang. ... 
bien Sp Ae ee 
Mone 2) 
Pe 
4 
Parsons ae, 
pat Foreign Serv oe Desk (de ri) 
we 
Rosen 
Ne 
Tamm __ 
SLIP(S) o . 
Vinerord 
— YF Hl 4 
ae 
Tele. Room ___ 
ae oP 
BADEG 1G 1068“ 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

Hie HY ©2 i sag oe 
rS61 01.930, 
18 ~ O3AIF93+ 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

ATTENTION LEGAL ATTACHE, LONDON: 
You may desire to advise your sources concerning 
the receipt of this communication from Mattan and concerning 
the type of information he is desirous of receiving. 


--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---

s 
S 
ff 
f 
f 
‘ 
ae 
AP 
GANGA 
SD 
CrTyY M AYOR 
7 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

Date 
Time af sighting 
Size 
Shape 
Compos ithorm 
Speed 
Altitude 
Directign 
Maneuvre 
Patterm 
Colour 
Sound 
Tengitin of time observed 
Sly conmiitions 
Vist BEY. 
Viistibhlat 
Directiiom of ground wind 
Name j;age; and address. 
SEE 
Se 
VcRkeE UNEKE SEEW, FF. 
Geereal remarks 
‘ + W/TNESSL 
RE.Fly ing Saucers » 
=" 
a 
: 
“ 
Dear Sir Mem) 
os ordeF 4G tring 
my _Feports ani fiDing system 
up 
to dete 
bt Would Belwery) much appreahated if ey 
* nat kindly 
complete the encloged fo %xrm ani return same %& 
i 
} 
( 
A 
© aimuere 
0) 
697 Ninfnachitnds 
nr, Ra Masa een 
‘Aertel phemmena ‘Investigetor. 
AERIAL PHENOMENA INVESTIGATOR, 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

Lecenber 17, 
“BSR 94 - 3 5u 
Miss Marian L./White 
Bor 40 
Thousand Palms, California 
Dear Miss White; 
Your letter dated December 6, 1954, has 
been received. 
Although I would like to be of service, 
information in FBI files is confidential ana avuail= 
able for official use onl 
t would like to point 
out also that this Bureau is Strictly a fact=fi 
tag 
agency and does not make evaluations or Graw conclu- 
Stons as to the character or integrity of 
individual, 
publication or organization, 
Zt know you will understand the reason for 
these rules and will not infer either that we do or 
that we do not have the information you desire, 
Stneerely yours, 
John kdgar Hoover 
Director 
NOTE: Waboard a Flying Saucer" is not identifiable in 
Bufiles. “It is to be noted that correspondent did not 
furnish its author's name. 
Dag 
weer call to the Library .f Congress "Aboard a Flying 
Boardman __ 
Saucer was written by Truman/bethurum, 
In June, 1954, an 
Nichols ____ 
Sess ape 
inquiry was made by the Cincinnati Office concerning Bethurum 
Harbo 
ang‘‘his flying disk lectures Since that office had received a 
ceteay gare 
Complaint similar to current correspondent's, 
(62=83694-342 ) 
No other references were located which might be identical with 
subject of garrene inquirys. 
DCLirg 
: 
| 
oy 
| 
MAILED 24 


--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---

recen ie 6, 1954 
MR EDGAR HOOVER, 
- DEPT OF JUSTICE, 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 
DEAR MR HOOVER; 
| HAVE MET ANDTALKED WITH THE MAN WHO 
WROTE THE BOOK, "ABOARD A FLYING SAUCER" 
HE SOUNDS 
SINCERE BUT | AM ALWAYS SCEPTICAL AND | HAVE BEEN 
WONDERING IF HE COULD BE TRYING TO PUT OVER ANY 
PROPAGANDA, 
1 AM PRESEIDENT OF THE PALM SPRINGS 
REPUBLICAN CLUB, JUST BY WAY OF IDENTIFICATION, AND 
A NUMBER OF MY MEMBERS HEARD HIM AND WE WOULD LIKE 
TO KNOW IF HE 1S ALRIGHT, 
ANYTHING YOU TELL ME WILL BE KEPT IN 
STRICTEST CONFIDENCE, 
VERY TRULY YOURS, 
BOX 40 
1000 PALMS 
CALIFORNIA 


--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION 
| 
UNITED STATES veoh OF JUSTICE 
Transmit/the following Teletype message to: 
FBY, DETROIT 
1/5/55 
PM EST 
PIRECTOR,/PBI (62-8389).) AIRTEL 
AMSD 
DETROIT FLYING SAUCERSCLUB, ESP-X, ONE LEONARD DAVIDSON, 14896 
KENTFIELD, A DETROIT PD PATROLMAN WHO IS A MEMBER OF ABOVE CLUB, 
ADVISED THAT RANDALL COX, WHO IS A CLUB DIRECTOR, TWICE HAS 
STATED HE IS "WORKING IN CONJUNCTION WITH THE FBI AND HAS BEEN 
TOLD TO REPORT TO WASHINGTON, D.C, FOR A CONFERENCE." COX 
REPORTEDLY SAID HE HAS BEEN INSTRUCTED TO BRING ANOTHER CLUB 
OFFICER, JOHN C, HOF 
WITH HIM, HOFFMAN AND DAVIDSON ARE 
COUSINS. WHEN THE TIME CAME TO GO TO WASHINGTON, COX SAID IT 
WAS IMPOSSIBLE FOR HIM TO GO AND THEY WOULD DO SO LATER. 
BOTH 
OF COX'S STATEMENTS WERE MADE WITHIN PAST MONTH, THE DETROIT 
OFFICE IS PREPARING A REPORT SUITABLE FOR DISSEMINATION ON 
THSS— 
CLUB. IMMEDIATELY AFTER 1/15/55, COX WILL BE INTERVIEWED BY 
DETROIT REGARDING ABOVE STATEMENTS, REPRIMANDED AND CAUTIONED 
TO REFRAIN FROM SUCH IN THE FUTURE, UACB, A REPORT WILL 
BE SUBMITTED. 
oH 
ys 
_) MC INTIRE 
bhi 
wim SS Wi (42-3387 
— 
nes:zer #5” WeCORDED-3 
(4) 
+ 
Mx, neon 
wo JAN 6 1955 
DOM. INTEL. DIVISION 
65-2677 
st 
ain 
IRTELZ&. 
ALE. 
Special agent i 
in-Oharge 


--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---

4 ce 
ce sy Mossburg 
4 
AIR-TEL 
URGENT 
JANUARY 7, 1955 
SAC, DETROIT (65-2677) (original & 1 
DETROIT PLYING SAUCER; CLUB, ESPIONAGE - X. REURAIRTEL 
1/5/55. BUREAU SEBS NO REASON FOR YOUR OFFICE TO WAIT UNTIL 
1/15/55» 70 INTERVIEW RANDALL COX. INTERVIEW HIM IMMEDIATELY 
UNLESS THERE IS SOMB GOOD REASON TO THE CONTRARY IN WHICH CASE 
THE BUREAU SHOULD BE ADVISED. (COX SHOULD BE INTERVIEWED FOR 
THE PURPOSES SET FORTH IN YOUR REFERENCED AIRTEL. 
62-3359 L BS 
{16 peeqRDED-37 
62-8.3894 
EH: 
f jm 7 
(4) 
COMM «FBI 
Tolson ___ 
Boardman —__ 
408 
Nichols —__ 
F 
Belmont 
| 
(or ae 
MAILED 20 3 
Mohr _____ 
ea rec 
Parsons _ 
Rosen 
Tamm 
Sizoo 
Winterrowd 
Tele. Room __ 
ye 
Holl 
. 
a 
> 
Q) WAN i4 955i 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

Office Memorandum + UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT 
di 
FBI 
pate: 
1/18/55 
aeron 
ycomo, 
Se 
(b) (3) (A) 
I LS/hr g 
os, AF = thhoeea teh - 
(2 
o> 
ns 
VEY 
—. "REOORDED-62 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

(b) (3) (A) 
(b) (3) (A) 
(b) (3) (A) 
noh.,,.peen 
the 
igh 
3 
fly 
aucer. 


--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---

i 
@ 
t 
4 
4 
eiall: 
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION 
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE 
Transmit’ the following Teletype message to: 
FBI 
“DETROIT 
1-12-55 
AIRTED 
C 
“ 
Vir 
PMS 
hall 
DIRECTOR, FBI (62-8389)) 
AMSD 
DETROIT FLYING SAUCERS CLUB, ESPIONAGE-X. 
RANDALL cox, 8456 cgaees 
OAK PARK, MICH., EMPLOYED AS PARTNER, USED CAR LOT, 17177 LIVERNOIS, 
DETROIT, INTERVIEWED 1-11-55 IN BUREAU CAR IN VICINITY 17177 
LIVERNOIS. COX DENIED MAKING ANY STATEMENT HE WAS WORKING WITH OR 
HAD ANY CONNECTION WITH FBI. 
HE CLAIMED SUCH ALL SGATION COULD HAVE 
RISON AS RESULT OF QUASTIONS ASKED DURING SOME M ETING AS TO 
WHETHER CLUB HAD FURNISHED INFORMATION TO FBI OR OTHER GOVERNMENT 
tox 
=NCY. 
HE REPLIED HE OR THE CLUB WOULD BE WILLING To COOPERATE 
WITH ANYONE AT ANY TIME. 
HE WAS CAUTIONED TO MAKE NO REPRESENTA- 
TION OR STATEMENT LEAVING THE IMPRESSION HE HAD ANY CONNECTION 
FBI. 
AS TO R SPORTING TO.WASHINGTON, COX SAID HE AND JOHN 
C. HOFFMAN, ANOTHER CLUB DIRECTOR, WERE GOING TO WASHINGTON, D.C. 
TO PRESENT THEIR INFORMATION "79 THE PENTAGON" AND THEY HOPED TO 
SEE " SOMBONE IN AIR FORCE INTELLIGENCE", 
Cox Sieh THEY INTE alt A 
TAKING WITH THEM SOMEONE, OR POSSIBLY Two, WHO. HAD “ACTUALLY 
f 
: 
SIGHTED SAUCEI S. 
IF THEY GET WO ONE TO GO THEY WILL GET 
AFFIDAVITS FROM SAUCER SIGHTERS. 
THETR PURPOSE IN GOING IS TO 
| 
FURNISH WHAT INFO THEY HAVE (THIS IS IN Poss SION OF THE CLUB) ‘ 
ON 
FLYING 
sAgc 
SLGE 
N 
FP 
FORM 
~ 
ON FLYING 
ITE BECABHT NS 
TN A jeeree 
IRM, POSSIBLY 
RBS: AMW 
O2- 8: 
> 
GS7 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

6 
é 
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION 
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE 
Transmit the following Teletype message to: 
PAGE TWO 
PHOTOGRAPHS AND TO OBTAIN WHAT 
© THEY CAN ON SAUCERS FROM THE 
GOVERNMENT. 
COX CLAIMED HE KNEW OF NO INFO THEY HAD WHICH MIGHT 
EFFECT THE NATIONAL DEFENSE OR INTERNAL SECURITY OF THE U.S. 
HE 
CLAIMS ONE JOHN FRY, A TECHNICIAN NoW ASS SIGNED TO SANDIA AF ae 
NEW MEXICO, 
L 
wh 
SAUCER FROM SANDIA BASE TO 
NEW YORK CITY, pee ROUND TRIP REQUIRING ONLY 30 MINUTES. 
cox SAID 
“PRY WAS TO COME 70 DETROIT IN THE FUTURE TO SPEAK. 
COX CLAIMS 
SAUCER CLUBS HAVE ACTUALLY RECEIVED MESSAGES FROM OUTER SPACE AND 
ALTHOUGH SAYS HE DOES NOT KNOW, HE FEELS THEY DO EXIST; HAVE BEEN 
SEEN BY MANY PEOPLE AND CLAIMS HS HAS SEEN THEM HIMSELF. 
HE FEELS 
THE PURPOSE OF CONTACTS WITH EARTH IS LIMITED AT THIS TIME TO 
PREPARING PEOPLE TO RECEIVE LANDINGS FROM OUTER SPACE. HE SAID 
THE SAUCERS ARE FRIENDLY TO U. S. 
HE SAID MESSAGES RECEIVED 
INDICATE ALL PLANETS BUT EARTH HAVE CONQUERED OUTER SPACE, 
OUTER 
SPACE PEOPLE CONSIDER THOSE ON EARTH THE LOWEST FORM OF UNIVERSAL 
SXISTHNCE. 
HOFFMAN IMPRESSED AGENTS AS BEING ONLY A LAYMAN 
(FORMERLY IN USAF, WW II) WHO HAS BEEN CARRIED BEYOND THE REALM 
OF SCIENTIFIC FACT INTO THAT OF POSSIBLE SCIENTIFIC FICTION. 
cox 
CLAIMS THAT DR. CHARLES A. LAUGHEAD, MICH. STATE COLLEGE PROFESSOR 
WHO WAS DISMISSED FOR HIS ACTIVITI£S AND PREVIOUS PREDICTIONS OF 
GEOLOGIC UPHEAVALS WHICH WERE TO HAVE OCCURRED 12-21-5), WAS 
MISUNDERSTOOD BUT ALLOWED HIS THINKING TO DWELL TOO MUCH ON 
Approved: 
Sent, 
M 
Per. 
Special Agent in Charge 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

gg, Wd St BET NE 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

78 
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION 
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE 
Transmit the following Teletype message to: 
PAGE THREE 
POSSIBILITIES OF FLYING SAUCERS AND OUTER SPACE. 
MUCH OF COX'S 
STATEMENTS BEAR CLOSE RESEMBLANCE TO THE WRITINGS OF DOROTHY 
MARTIN, OAK PARK, ILLINOIS, MENTIONED IN DETROIT LETTER, 11-30-5h. 
UESTED THE BUREAU ADVISE WHETHER 
ANY ATTEMPTS BE MADE BY 
TO OBTAIN ANY OF THE MATERIAL MENTIONED BY COX AS BEING IN 
SSION OF THE FLYING SAUCER CLUB. 
THIS PROBABLY WOULD REQUIRE 
CONTACTS WITH OTHER OFFICERS OF TE 
LUB, 
WHICH MIGHT BE UNDESIRABLE, 
PARTICULARLY DUE TO THE DOUBT EXISTING THAT THEY COULD BE CONTACTED 
ON A CONFIDENTIAL BASIS, 
REPORT FOLLOWS. 
MC .INTIRE 
Approved: 
Special Agent in Charge 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

og, Wa ET al 
8 NW 
GaN 
LECT 
Spe, hy zeg Blt 
sonane a 
n 
j e8@.8 
L MAL 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

Mre Mossburg 
AIR =~ TEL 
JANUARY 18, 1955 
SAC, DETROIT (65-2677) Hind & 1) 
NG SAUCER CLUB, ESPIONAGE - Xe 
REURAIR-TEL 1-12-55. 
NV RE SIGHTING OF FLYING SAUCERS AND INFORWATION 
CONCERNING FLYING SAUCERS IS WITHIN THE |JURISDICTION OF 
THE AIR FORCE AND NOT THE BUREAU. 
THE BUREAU DORS NOT DESIRE 
YOUR OFFICE TO OBTAIN FROM CAPTIONED CLUB OR ITS MEMBERS, 
WATERIAL CONCERNING FLYING SAUCERS. 
THE INFORMATION IN YOUR 
REFPSRENCED AIR-TEL AND INFORMATION CONGERNIN 
IN POSSESSION OF CAPTIONED CLUB SHOULD BE REFERRED TO iii 
REPORT BEING PREPARED 
BY YOUR OFFICE. 
SHOULD B 
URNISHED TO OSI LOCALLY. 
62-83894 
EM:rmp:dlt . 
(4) 
Tolson ____ 
MAILED 11 
JAN 1 81955 
COMM. FBI 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

» 
DECLASSIFIED 
Authority: 
DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE 
HEADQUARTERS UNITED STATES AIR FORCE 
WASHINGTON 25, D.C. 
27=0-718 
Honorable J. Edgar Hoover 
Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation 
ns [4 
United States Department of Justice 
Reoolved: from, “i 
Washington 26, D. C. 
pai, 
ATTN: Mr. Deniel J. Sullivan 
Liaison Agext 
CHARLES arose 
OC Research Laboratory 
St. Clair Shores, Michigan 
Attached are copies of a letter recently forwarded to this ee 
by the Director of Special Investigations, Alesken dir yietmatl 
addition to the address in captioned subject, the letter refleots ay 
oe 
return address of the 18th Cml. Tech. Intel. Det., 100th Gn1....¢ 
nat _* 
Fort MeClella, Alabama. 
“ie 
The original letter was furnished by Major Willi 
dre, Commander, 5004th Air Intelligence Service Squ: 
egeton 
AFB, APO 942, Seattle, Washington. Major Greenhalgh advised that the 
letter was turned over to Flight A of his orgenization by Doctor Kennidy, 
DDS, Nome, Alaska. Major Greenhalgh identified Dr. Kennidy as 2 private 
pilot who has in the pest been the source of several reports to this 
orgenization. Dr. Kennidy, 
ted that the letter was found in a book 
which he had loaned to Mr4 Small over a year ago and which was recently 
returned. 
At Ashe 
Major Greenhalgh identified Mr. Small as a type-setter for the Nome 
Nugget, a newspaper which is published three times a week. Mr. Small 
was further described as being peculiar and a definite introvert type. 
| 
/He is a near alcoholic ond is presently living with an Eskimo woman wbo 
« is an alcoholic, 
#! 
Major Greenhalgh advised that a 
get 
is mentioned in 
the letter, publishes the Nome Nugget.’ 
A search of the files of this office and the files of OSI, Alaskan 
Air Command, failed to locate information pertinent to the persons - cme 
(/ Ne 
tioned in the attached letter. recornen - 15, Lee-f 3 
337 iY IAM 
F 
A, 
HOW. FORW, 
BY ee 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

Ltr to FBI, File 27-0-718, RE: CHARLES A, YOST, OC Research Laboratory, 
St. Clair Shores, Michigan (Cont) 
The attached letter is furnished for your information and any 
action deaned necessary. 
1 Incl (in dup) 
Photostat, Ltr fr Yost 
to Small dtd 14 Nov 54 
oc: Assistant Chief of Staff, 
Department of the Aray 
w/inol (in dup) 
Sincerely, 
e 
IN, JR, Li 
Chief, Counter Int 
jotorate of Special Investigations 
The Inspector General 
G-2 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

EF 
rf 
14 November, 1953 
18th Cnl.TecheIntel Det« 
100th Cml.Grp. 
Fort McClellan, Alabama 
Deer Mr. Small, 
Youp letter was recieved Nov.12,1953. Thank you very much 
for replying and offering your aidWe also wish to thank Mrs.Bou- 
cher « 
As you will notice my address hes changed. Until further 
notice it will be as shown in the upper right hand corners 
At the present time our research activities are being kept 
secret. However,at a time in the future when we have no need to 
use this security measure,I will personally write and inform you 
of what we were,and possibly are,doing. Our research does heve a 
connection with the "flying saucer",although it is at present a 
secondary issue. The main body of our research is with electric 
fields.(It is not a "copy" of what Keyhoe mentioned in his recent 
book relating to the Canadian Project. The research with which we 
are concered has been carried on for many years now by a research 
foundation in Western United States-which is not connected to us.) 
The "flying Saucer" reports are of value to us because they may 
give clues towerd the investigation of various phases in our re- 
searches 
I have told you these things.so thet you might understand 
the need for our recieving saucer reports,also because you are no 
doubt curious about our activities.(Every once in a while I will 
inform you of our activity.) Because you and Mra#.Boucher are taking 
the time and trouble to help us - in turn,we wish to cooperate as 
best we can to in some way return the favor. So,do not hesitate in 
calling on us in the future. 
Yours truly, 
Coordinator 
OC Research Laboratory ,in 
St. Clair Shores, Michigan 
Chakee 4. 
Chanbe> Oat


--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---

om 
“FEDERAL BUREAU OF IN@@ETIGATION - 
RECORDS SECTION 
, 1954 
(“J Name Check Unit-Room 6523 
[CfAttention 
voy 
(Service Unit-Rgém 6524 _- 
("1 Forward to Fi 
view 
CooReturn to 
Ext. 
Supetvisor 
Room - 
< 
CIAII References 
[EySubversive References 
(1 Main References Only 
[Main 
References Only 
CyRestrict ‘tol Local ityof = 22" 
C2 Breakdown C1 Buildup [Variations 
C3 Exact Name Only 
CO Exact Spelling 
(1 Check for Alphabetical Loyalty Form 
SUBJECT 
Address 
Loca] 
it ie: 
Birthdate Place 
| PAR 
ri 
eo 
Searcher 
Rif 
: 
Date’ 
“AS 
Initial 
FILE NUMBER 
SERIAL 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

5 NUMEROUS mae x 
4-228 
SEARCH SLIP 
Subj:. 
Supervisor. 
Room_// 
Searcher 
Re. 
Initial_/ 
SERIAL 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

FEDERAL BUREAU OF rian 
RECORDS SECTION 
, 1955 
("1 Name Check Unit-! koe 6523 
E7Attention 
_—3« 
(Service Uni t-Rdom 6524 
(J Forward to File Review 
CefReturn to 
Ext. 
Supervisor 
Room 
CO ALL References 
CerSubversive References 
(2 Main References Only 
C5 Main 
References Only 
_ 
C2¥Restrict to Locality of 
2 
Breakdown [—] Buildup Caivariations 
(3 Exact Name Only 
Co Exact Spelling 
[71 Check for Alphabetical Loyalty Form 
SUBJECT. 
Address 
Localities 
Birthdate & Place. 
Searcher 
Date 
Initial 
FILE NUMBER 
SERIAL 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

eile 
4-22 
FEDERAL BUREAU OF Msricarsion: 
RECORDS SECTION 
» 
1955 
(1 Name Check Unit-Room 6523 
[Zt Attention 
= 
(Service Unit-Room 6524 
("Forward to File Review 
ee 
CyReturn to 
Ext. 
Supervisor 
Room 
(All References 
(Subversive References 
(2 Main References Only 
([) Maifi___ References Only 
CtRestrict to Locality of _Cé“wis 
fx 
(3 Breakdown (1 Buildup [Variations 
C 
Exact Name Only 
(Exact Spelling 
(1 Check for Alphabetical Loyalty Form 
SUBJECT. 
Address 
Localities 
Birthdate & Place. 
J 
Searcher 
Date 2/| 
Initial } 
| 
FILE NUMBER 
SERIAL 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

FEDERAL BUREAU OF IWW@STIGATION 
RECORDS SECTION 
BoE eeu par 
 SA95 Ss 
(J Name Check Unit- Room 6523 
C7Attention 
[Service Unit-Room 6524 
("J Forward to File Review 
eturn to 
e 
i 
Ext. 
Supervisor 
Rooms 
= Se 72eS OP on 
(ALF References 
Subversive References 
(2 Main References Only 
© 
Main: 
References Only 
aRestrict to Locality of 
< 
(3 Breakdown [1 Buildup Warlationa 
C3 Exact Name Only 
CO Exact Spelling 
(1 Check for Alphabetical Loyalty Form 
SUBJECT 
Address 
Localities 
Birthdate & Place 
L 
ii 
vl 
[ 
Searcher 
Date_ 
-4 
Initial 
AUD 
FILE NUMBER 
SERIAL 
/ 
ee ee 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

* CARL F.CASSIN, 
. 
HARRY E.TUTTLE, 
MANAGING DIRECTOR , 
RESIDENT MANAGER 
MIAMI, FLORIDA 
RECORDE 
INDEXED-99 
AUY 3 


--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---

eee 
é 
g 
Office Memorandum ° UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT 
Tolson 
: 
Mr. Nichols 
; 
pate: 
July 26, 1955 Same 
— 
Belmont 
‘ 
Harbo 
f 
LV) 4, 
Mohr 
u,/af Jo Ie 
Parsons 
4 
Rosen 
Tamm 
, 
Sizoo 
; 
CATHERINE AUGHENBAUGH 
Tele: 
Room = 
INFORMATION CONCERNING 
bearer 
Correspondent submitted a, siz-page rambling and partly 
incoherent letter postmarked July 24, 1955, wherein she requests 
a number of "F, B, I, men" to assist her in watching for flying 
Saucers which she claims are real. 
She remarks she has previously WwW 
written letters to the President, but that they have been ignored. 
Bufiles reflect no record identifiable with correspondent. 
RECOMMENDATION: 
Wo acknowledgment of correspondent's letter in view of 
her apparent emm@ disturbed condition. 
UI 
é PEAR 
é 
i 
JRH: afb We” 
(2) 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

* CARL F.CASSIN, 
2 
HARRY E.TUTTLE 
MANAGING DIRECTOR , 
RESIDENT MANAGER 
A 
MIAMI, FLORIDA 


--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---

* CARL F.CASSIN, 
MANAGING BIRECTOR , 
_@ 
wrer Gralyrn 
HARRY E.TUTTLE 
RESIDENT MANAGER 
MIAMI, FLORIDA 


--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---

«HY 8S [TT 
G2 mp 
bee 
Ook ee 
Sa 
S1OHOISHORDINICOTAIA 
S29 
ibe Nd BH 94220" G2 THY 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

@ 
Mre Tolson _—~_ 
eer. 
; 
. ees, + 
Orrice oF Director 
i, a. NicholsJw 
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION 
EFS 
BeTHORE 
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE 
Mr. Harbo 
Mr. Mohr 
Mr. Parsons 
Mr. Rosen 
Mr. Tamm 
Mr. Jones 
Mr. Sizoo 
Mr. Winterrowd __ 
Tele. Room 
Mr. Holloman 
Miss Holmes 
Miss Gandy 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

4t the 
Committee (IAC) 
| as sougeed a reper 
tved from 
| traveling through & 
that Se 
flying saucer. 
(b) (3) (A) 
(b) (3) (A) 
The consensus of the discussion at the IAC meeting wan $ 
this could have been any one ef a number of things, tnoluding @ 
helicopter, butt hat other members of tha 
party should be tnter~ 
viewed and, meanwhile, the matter ahanedd, ? képt quiet to avetd 
leenoern of the part of the Russians wh 
Wowk E Fs sult tn limtting 
lef Uatted States travel tn Russia. et 
sj 
a) 
Fer your informations 
(5) 
n 
co--Mr. Béeardnan 
. 
oo--Wr. Belnont 
ce--Ur. Brantgen 
oe--ir. M. Vo Kuhrts, Liatson Sectton 
6A-9b7/S-4h0 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

Tice. Memor. 
Ui. “+ UNITED STATES 
GOVERNMENT 
13 
af o& 
} 
re 
t 
DL. Ve Boardman 
aye 
vi 
DATE: November 4, 
p 
From 
+ 
A, 2, Beinond\)w 
e) 
ronjact: “FLYING SAUCERS 
Tele, Reon 
Holloma: 
ftemymemo to you 10-18-55 advising that at Executive \ cniy 
Session of Intelligence Advisory Committee (ZAC) on 10-18-55, 
Mr. Dulles of CL. discussed report received from party of 
Senator Richard Baxgussell of Georgia, traveling through Rus: 
ns that Senator Russeli\iad seen a fiyirig saucer,| 
i 
Ae. 
| 
I 
| 
a 
_.__\Ihe Getar 
i 
decided the matter should be kept quiet and all members of party | 
? 
interviewed. 
Attached memos from GTA received 11=3-55 aduiser 
members of party debriefed and following is summary of their 
} 
observations: Party was traveling by train from Baku to Tiflis 
and after dark Russell noticed a small greenish-yellow glowing 
ball rising quite rapidly in sky. He informed other members of 
the party and a few minutes later they observed another object, 
Mr. Efron saw only 2 lights resembi ing eyes. 
Colonel Hathaway 
eau a shadowy object mith similar light in middle at the top and 
rotating light or lights simf@lar to exhausts at the base, 
Senator 
Russel? had impression object could have been as small as a rocket, 
Ur, Gros and Colonel Hathaway considered size comparable ta Ue S. 
Jet fighter, but Hathaway stated object did not resemble any air- 
craft, roeket or missile he had ever seen, All agree object was 
rotating during its rise along tis inibial steep trajectory. Based 
on interviews so far, CIA advises only testimony whieh would support 
existence of flying saucer or radically unconventional aircraft 
ts that of Colonel Hathaway. 
All other observations can probably 
be explained as steep~cl imbing atreraft or missile or exhaust of 
normal jet aircraft in a dive, followed by @ sharp pull-up in such 
@ way nothing could be seen until exhaust visible to observers on 
train, but possible aircrafté was indeed of the short or aimost 
vertical take-off variety. 
OTA estates further discussion will 
probably be required to completely resolve matter but indicates 
that evidence does not appear suffietently firm to warrant 
conclusion that Soviets have developed a radically new type 
aircraft. 
A 
af 
¥ 
ACTION: 
al 
) 
For. a 
information. 
unc,” 1g 
mn ELE 
nd 
: 
elosuret “et: EXE 
» NOV 8 1955 
Ww seh 
} 
S 
SHOW ia 7955 AHBelmont 
ee ae 
4 
4hJones 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

é 
oe PRISE CS | 
Best Possible Image 
MEMORASDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence 
j Sightings of Miytmg Suse oF thocuentlon) 
atrerett 
le 
fe 
oe 
ait 
a fy ib La 
‘al 
paid : 
Hl al 
if a 
io ie - 
i 1 
| 
tt Me : 
Hl i 
He 
il i 
tt i 
| i; 
: 
ETD 
i Hee 
: 
iat 
ee 
ee i it (i 
; 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

| 
i 
ile 
ttitten,,. 
i 
scene


--- PAGE BREAK ---

at 
27 Octover 1955 
MEMORANDUM 
FOR THE RECORD 
Interview with depete= “chard 
B,. Russell 
“ili, itl lid, fr ihe 
1443 
J 
tant | an ti He 
in hes 
a i TE 
Hat “ie 
i Hla ali it 
alt wi 
Be ie Hi 
el 
lay 
|e 
Al he 
al i 
ai 
oa | tr iy bhi it 
ee a Te


--- PAGE BREAK ---

Interview 
with Benatar Richard B. Russell 
Mo unusual attitude on. the 
? 
erik . a 
ay 
fa adic i 
He ic 
it 
ij Aetatie 
ih He ip HL 
; gH 
ed; Anal erat iF 
dt cnt al 
oe Tithe a ie 
init THalehl i “Pula 
ALL IAC MEMBERS 
4


--- PAGE BREAK ---

ic 
pith i 
iit 
ih aij 
ih 
au 
qual 
it tn i | 
ie 
iif 
‘i rail 
; 
ie os 
ie a 
i 
thd 
ar 
i il 
idan 
ih 
wa 
Hit 
Sibel 
: 
SULT: Ihterview vith Senster Motlurt B. mineli 
3. 
2k ie 
PAD 
te 
= ia 
agen 
RF 
ht 
a 
hie) 
Frere 
‘ 
S Buecers 
i 
‘the following 
te a report of on 
ica 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

PUBIC: Interview with tonmtor Richart B. duseeta’ 
ie 
ae af 
il i He 
i! 
tak : 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

+aisMe a0 add $0 
ig 
2OVNOIGS 3 0.9398 
WG. idd 9% | 
82 
IG Hd 09 p 
 |7 ea 
YOL9guiG- 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

Tolson — 
Boardman 
Nichols. _{_ 
Belménr 
yt? 
are: aa 
Mohr _¥. 
Parsons 
Rosen 
Tamm _ 
Sizoo 
Winterrowd 
[=~ 
Tele. Room —_” 
Holloman ____ 
Gandy 
ertin 
jtreet 
assachusetts 
ated February 12, 1956, 
has 
sincerely appreciate the interest 
jincerely 
(9) 
DiOW¥Ge 
WA S35 | ebb 
ae 
9 
1h. 
2 
y 
PA 
fai agguicaN 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

SaNOr un 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

Sunday cool 12,1956. 
“+ Springfield 
9, Massachusetts. 
Mr. J. Edgar Hoover, 
Federal Bureau of Investigation, 
Washington, D.C. 
¢ 
FL 
Dear Mr. Hoover:- 
I know that you are a very busy man but do you 
suppose that you could enlighten me on the following subject. 
My name is Richard E. Guertin and I am 15 years 
of age and am a student at Technical High School here in 
Springfield,Massachusetts. 
Recently I became very interested in one of the 
most amazing dramas of our time, the phenomena of the flying 
saucers, In a book which I have just read, entitled "flying 
saucers uncensored" written by Harold T. Wilkins,the author 
tells of many cases and sightings of flying saucers which 
correspondents around the world have sent him. 
One story which he recéivéd from a correspondent in California, 
tells the story of two men who supposedly came from Vents and 
went to @ Los Angeles journalist in March 1953. These men did 
strange things which made someone so suspicious that he suppo-= 
sedly contacted the F.B.I., which is supposed to have sent an 
investigator to find out what was going on,but in some strange 
| way the Venusians by using telepathic power or some strange 
\ 
faculty of prevision ddd not return to the office again. It was 
said that the F.B.I. was never able to find them for question= 
ing. 
\ 
\ 
\ 
\ 
\ 
I wonder if this story is true, and if you 
| 
were really notified.I know of you were notified you couldn't |! 
tell me anyting about 
the incident, but I am very curious. 
Could you possibly tell me if you were noti- 
fied and if the story is true. 
I would appreciate hearing from you. 
a 
Yours truly, 
“i 
é 
Richard,Guertin 
196 College Street 
Springfield 9, Massachusetts. 


--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---

Office Minn Rdats ¢ UNITED scar GOVERNMENT 
tra he Boardman [f07 
pate: April 13, 1956 
— 
as 
A. He 
SYLVIA L. RICHARDS 
Winterrowd 
GS-5, Name Check Unit 
ieee 
EOD 4.14.47 
ie 
Fly 
pa 
Gandy ____ 
On April 9, 1956, Miss Richards was interviewed con- 
cerning her sighting of an unusual object about dawn April 65 
1956, while driving on Reute 1 near Henderson, North Carolina, 
with her fiance, Joseph Liorris, Jrey an employee of the 
National Security Agency. |S 
was interviewed for additional 
details in this matter on Apr 
12, 1956, by Supervisor Mossburg. 
Miss Richards reviewed memorandum dated April 10, 1956, 
from W. G. 
Eames to Mr. Nichols prior to being questioned for any 
other details which might be of aaistance to the Air Force in this 
matter. 
She advised she had seen the object for only a few seconds, 
that it was still dark when she observed it, although it was near 
daylight on April 6, 1956. 
She stated when daylight came she 
observed the sky to be cloudy and it started raining approxi- 
mately 30 minutes after she had observed the object. 
She 
recalled the object had approached their car on the driver's 
side from straight ahead at a height which she thought to be 
less than 25 feet. 
She was unable to estimate the speed of 
the object. 
She described it as being oval shaped, being very 
bright and having a light blue color. 
It made no sound that she 
could hear. 
She advised her fiance would be able to state 
exactly where they had observed the object in North Carolina, 
inasmuch as he was familiar with that area. 
She was unable to 
recall any additional pertinent information. 
ACTION: 
There is enclosed a letter to the Office of Special 
Investigations in this matter. 
LBNichols 
LVBoardman 
nt 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

STANDARD FORM NO. 64 
Office. Memordum * UNITED Se a 
qos? 
; > 
aR, nronors Ny 
vw. a. zaurs £2 
SYSVIA L. RICHARDS 
GS-5, Name Check Unit 
BOD 4-14-47 
ey, 
ys 
Sau 
Winterrowd 
Tele. Room 
Miss Richards on 4/9/56 reported the following rather as 
unusual occurrence which is in the "Flying Saucer” category. 4 
th; 
6037 22ud RAN, Bel, Ve 
ey, ang apc 
On 4/5/56 Miss aicnGnas left Washington by car with her 
: 
fiance, Joseph L. Morris, Jr. (employee of National Security Agency), 
to go to Morven, North Carolina to meet the Morris family. 
Around 
5 a.m. on 4/6/56 as dawn was breaking and while driving on Route 1 ia) 
north of Henderson, North Carolina, the pair was startled by what 
appeared to be a round low-flying object coming directly towards 
the car. 
The object appeared to pass over the car and Miss Richards 
turned to see it appear to speed up and then veer off out of sight. 
She and Mr, Morris both felt they had seen something unusual which was 
difficult to explain and certainly did not appear to be an optical 
tllusion. 
Miss Richards stated the object as she saw it appeared 
round, was spinning and was bright as though containing a series of 
lights in a zig-zag pattern. 
The object appeared to be flying very 
low as it came towards them, moving at great speed and gave off no 
particular sound. 
The object, to the best of her belief, was at 
least as wide as the highway and appeared no more than two to four 
Sfeet in thickness. 
A 
Miss Richards, who is one of our best employees, stated 
*) “heretofore she has placed little credence in "flying saucer” stories 
-. and felt that had she and her boyfriend not seen the same object she 
- |}Swould be inclined to think she had imagined something. 
She 
“appreciates that what they saw may have been some kind of optical 
S..tllusions however, at the time the object appeared very real to them. 
a> 
LG 
RECOMMENDATION: 
If you agree, it is recommended that this memorandum be 
referred to the Liaison Section of the Domestic Intelligence Division 
for possible referral to any int&érested military agencies. 
CYer:sax 
i 
; 
ae, 
(3) 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

tai = WWOS. 
"ORS USTENOD AS 
Winterrowd 
Tele. Room 
Holloman Bs 
APR 26 1986 
BY COURIER SERVICE 
april 16, 1956 
Director of Special Investigations (Original & 1) 
The Inspector General 
Department of the Air Force 
Building Tempo F 
4th and Adams Drive, S. 
Washington, 2. C, 
From: 
John Edgar Hoover, Director 
Federal Sureau of Investigation 
Subjects SIGHTING GQ OBJECT RESEUSL ING 
FLYING SAUCER ON APRIL 6, 1956, 
N@AR HENDERSON, NORTH CAROLINA 
MISCELLANEOUS = INFORMATION CONCERNING 
(ESPIONAGE) 
On April 6, 1956, Mise Sylvia L, Richards, an 
employee of this Bureau who resides at Two Zast Mason Avenue, 
Alexandria, Virginia, while en route to Morven, North Carolina, 
via automobile, with her fiance, Mr. Joseph L. Morrisy Jrey 
observed an unusual object which appeared to resemble a) 
) v] 
flying saucer. 
: f Nard 
Miss Richards stated at about § Assy on April 6, 
vY¥ 
1956, while itt was still dark and while ariving on Route 1 
north of Henderson, North Carolina, she and ur. Morris were 
startled by what appeared to be an ovaleshaped, lowejlying 
s 
object coming directly towards their car at a great speed, 
( WW 
on the driver's side, Miss Richards stated the object, 
5: 
which was lees than 25 feet from the ground, appeared to 
aa) ss 
be apinning, was bright as though containing a series of 
Sf 
lights in a zigzagging pattern, wae light blue in color 
and was at least as wide as the highway and no more than 
from two to four feet in thickness, 
She 
stated the object 
/y 
did not change shape, it made no sound and that she observed 
‘’ 
it for only a few seconds before it appeared to pase over the 
ear, accelerate speed and veer off out of sight behind them. 
Miss Richards advised when daylight came she noticed it was 
cloudy and that approximately 30 minutes after they had 
sighted the object it began to rain, 
FEU: ss , 
y w NOI: Cover memo Belmont to Boardman 4-13.56 
(8) ff 
aru 
Hiliiss, re: 
"Sylvia L. Richards, GS-5, 
y 
RY 5 
Name Check Unit, HOD 4.14.47." 
X 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

a 
Letter to Director of Special Inveatigations 
the Inspector General 
Department of the Air Force 
Miss Richards advised Mr. Morris, an employee 
of the National Security Agency who resides at 
6039 22nd Road, North Arlington, Virginia, would recall] 
approximately where they sighted the object and he may 
be able to furnish additional pertinent information. 
The above is furnished for your information 
and no further action is being taken in this matter. 


--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---

BS 
é 
é 
Office Memorandum * UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT 
TO 
Ur. A. H. Be1monf\\” 
DATE May 4, 1956 
Tolson 
FROM ‘Mr. L. H. Martin, yyy 
Nichols 
oe 
Boardman 
/ 
Belmont 
Mason 
susecH FLYING DISC OBSERVED 
) 
‘a eee 
OXFORD, PENNSYLVANIA 
a 
P 
Rosen 
WAY 4, 1956 
: 
“y 
’ 
Load 
? 
Z 
asta 
Ors 
Winterrowd 
q 
J 
’ 
Tele. Room 
ier 
aoe 
Mr. ThomastGamble, 102 geleey Street, Ourerds) 
1 ie 
Pennsylvania, telephone 1177R, called 11:35 p.m., 
May 
4, 
Pronk 
~1956, and advised that he had just observed a bright light 
ww 
traveling about 2000 feet in the air toward Baltimore. He 
last saw it at the place he was calling the Bureau from 
which was 121 Hodson Street, Oxford, Pennsylvania. He 
described the object as a solid, bright, yellow light, 
visible from all directions which he described at one 
point as being more than twice as bright and twice as big 
as the headlight of an automobile and another time as 
twice as bright as the evening star and it was impossible 
to persuade him to describe it more specifically. He said 
the object made no noise and that dt first it was traveling 
overhead about as fast as his automobile but then it speeded 
up and he could not keep up with it although he was 
traveling at 80 miles per hour. He said that two of his 
y 
buddies in the barroom where he had first observed the 
AY 
object had also observed it--Cecil Pew and Raymond Dixon. 
He said he had tried to call Civil Defense headquarters 
Wie 
in Baltimore but no one was on duty. Tupiles reflect 1” epee 
tidentfrotble wits Fhowes 
awnble, 
¢ 
ACTION: 
Captain Be Os sBr etn, OST, mae aavised. 
6 X-¥4¥94 - 366 
ah, 
16 MAY 8 1956 
cc - Mr. Belmont 
Mr. Branigan 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

Ba ANE 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

STANDARO BORM NO. 64 
Office Memorandum * UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT 
FS x 
: 
TO 
+ 
A. He Belmon 
DATE) (5-5=56 
y\ 4 
Tolsea ——__.» 
FROM 
+ 
J. He Glascock 
‘TF 
Nichols 
Boardman 
Belmont 
Mason 
SUBJECT: inee DISC OBSERVED 
oie 
OXFORD, PENNSYLVANIA 
Reet 
May 4, 1956 
Tamm 
Nease 
Winterrowd 
Reference nade to memorandum Mr. Martin to 
Tele. Room 
Mr. Belmont, May 4, 1956, indicating Thomas Gamble, 
pases 
102 Center Street, Oxford, Pennsylvania, called at 
11:35 p.m., May 4, 1956, concerning a bright light he 
had observed traveling toward Baltimore at an altitude 
of approzimately 2,000 feet. 
This same individual telephonically advised the 
writer 2:45 p.jisday 5, 1956, his true name is 
Billy ThomastGambi21 and that his true residence is 
419 South Broad Street, Kenneth Square,Pennsylvaniae 
Gambill desired to know the results of any investigation 
conducted as the result of his previous call. 
It was 
pointed out to him that the Bureau was not at liberty 
to disclose such information. 
Bureau indices on Billy Thomas Gambill, limited 
to Pennsylvania, were searched with negative results. 
At 3:35 p.me, May 5, 1956, Captain E. C.Brown, 
OSI, was telephonically advised at his residence. 
ACTION: 
This is for your information. 
ce Belmont 
Branigan 
Glascock 
JHG spat, 
(4) 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

We Hd 6t 2 Ol aNy 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

"OAS URUNOD AB 
Tolson 
Boardman 
Nichols — 
Belmont 
Harbo —_____ 
Mobr 
Parsons 
Rosen 
Tamm 
Sizoo 
Winter 
Tele. Room 
Holloman 
Gandy 
ce ®&...... 
INaison 
BY COURIER SERVICE 
May 11, 1956 
Director of Special Investigations 
The Inspector General 
, 
(orig. & 1) 
Department of the Air Force 
Building Tempo EF 
4th and Adams Drive, 8. W. 
Washington, D. Ce 
Frome: 
John Edgar Hoover, Director 
Federal Bureau of Investigation 
Subjects FLYING DISC OBSERVED 
OXFORD, PENNSYLVANIA 
WAY 4, 1956 
MISCELLANEOUS = INFORMATION CONCERWING (zspronacE) 
At 11235 poms, May 4, 1956, an individual 
who identified himself as Thomas Gamble, 102 Center 
Street, Oxford, Pennsylvania, advised this Bureau 
he had just observed at Oxford, Pennsylvania, a 
bright Fk oy traveling about 2,000 feet in the air 
toward Baltimore, Maryland. He described the object 
as a solid, bright yellow light visible from all 
directions and that it was twice as bright and twice 
as large as the headlight of an automobile, He also 
~ 
described it as twice as bright as the evening star. 
He was unable to described it in more detail. He 
stated the object made no noise, that at first its 
speed was the same as the car he was driving but it 
sped up and although he was driving 80 miles an hour 
he was unable to keep up with it. He advised that 
~~ 
two of his friends, Cecil Pew and Raymond Dixon, also~ 
had observed the object. 
e 
At 2245 poem, May 5, 1956, the above- 
referred=-to individual advised his true name and 
address were Billy Thomas Gambill, 419 South Broad 
Street, Kenneth Square, ‘Pennsylvania. 
\ 
BHM: jab ~ 
, 
& fe 
us 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

Letter to Director of Special Investigations 
The Inspector General 
Department of the Air Force 
The above information was telephonically 
furnished to Captain EB. C. Brown of your office by this 
Bureau on May 4 and May 5, 1956, for whatever action 
deemed desirable by your office. Wo action is contemplated 
in this matter by this Bureau. 


--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---

» Office Mase ndem . A, 
Bhatt GOVERNMENT 
To 
: 
DIRECTOR, FBI 
pate: 8/15/56 
NM 
mmo ee LOS ANGELES (100-2442) 
Se 
ee 
TOD KITTREDGE 
Pirie SAUCERS 
The following is being furnished to the Bureau for its 
information in the event an inquiry should be received from the 
Air Force: 
on 8/14/56, Lt. LOUIS SAUTER and Sgt. CHARLES M. HOWARD, 
4602nd Air Intelligence Service Squadron, Norton AFB, San 
Bernardino, California, called at this office, accompanied by 
Captain DAMON ECKLES of the Air Information Service, 
Lt. SAUTER stated he had received a teletype from 
his headquarters, reflecting that TODAKERTREDOE, 1430 Hatteras 
Street, Van Nuys, California, had reported that on 7/16/56, a 
sphe 
erical vehicle had landed in his back yard, splitting a large 
tree in two. On 7/30/56, this vehicle returned and on this 
occasion some little green men emerged from the vehicle and invited 
KITTREDGE to ride in their ship. He supposedly went up with them 
for approximately 20 minutes. 
Lt. SAUTER stated he had no additional information 
except that KITTREDGE was believed to be employed in some minor 
x 
technical capacity for the Columbia Broadcasting System. 
Captain ECKLES stated he recalled that the incident 
reported by KITTREDGE was presented on a CBS television newscast 
about the time it oceurred, and that during the telecast, the split 
tree was shown, and an interview was had with KITTREDGE. 
According 
to Captin ECKLES, the tenor of the comments by the television announcer 
was that he placed little credence in the story, but was presenting 
it for what it was worth, 
Lt. SAUTER stated that he believes the incident reported 
by KITTREDGE to be utterly ridiculous, but, in accordance with 
instructions from his headquarters, he must make some inquiry concerning 
KITTREDGE in such a manner as not to result in any publicity indicating 
an Air Force interest. 
He inquired if the FBI would conduct investi- 
(bureau (Air Mail) 
VV 
1-Los pom Ce 
4 
KD” 
\ MH Iuc oo. mA 
9)" 
s 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

DIRECTOR, FBI 
8/15/56 
RE: TOD KITTREDGE 
FLYING SAUCER 
gation to obtain information concerning the background of 
KITTREDGE, and was advised that no such investigation would be 
conducted by this office in the absence of instructions from 
the Bureau. 
No record of KITFREDGE is reflected in the indices of the 
Los Angeles Office and SAUTER was so advised. 
No action by this office is contemplated. 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

2935 wee WNUSLNI 
IG. HY SE J) 
yy 3g 
SE. HEES 2 f) ae 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

Office Memor. dum * UNITED i” 
GOVERNMENT 
To 
=: DIRECTOR, FBI 
pate: 9/7/56 
: SAC, ST, LOUIS (62-0) 
oui? .R.O. BULLETIN, 
Aye 
1712 Van Court, 
LA 
nes 
Alamogordo, New Mexico 
i 
. 
MISCELLANEOUS 
On August 31, 1956, HARLAN 
WOLD, 1829a North Market 
Street, St. Louis, Missouri, employed as an electrician, 
Department 155, at McDonnell Aircraft Corporation, St. 
Louis County, Badge No. 55185, appeared at the St. Louis 
Office to advise that he and a group of fellow workers 
have subscribed,to a publication entitled "The A.P.R.0O..~.* 
Bulletin", which is published at 1712 Van Court, Alamégordo; 
New Mexico, and which contains articles about-fkying sauters. 
WOLD stated he and a group of *fellow-werkers saw an adver- 
tisement concerning the above described publication in a 
magazine and they subscribed to this publication for one 
year at a cost of $3.00. 
WOLD further stated this publica- 
tion slurred and criticized the U. S. Air Force and offi- 
eials of the U. S. Air Force and was in his opinion Commu- 
nistic. 
A copy of this communication is being forwarded the 
Albuquerque Office for purposes of information. 
2 - Bureau 
1 - Albuquerque 
1 - St. Louis (62-0) 
CSS:nin 
(4) 
‘ft 
INDEXED.74 
EX-117 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

gceWZe O) 02 8S 
J oitsqt 
30 71430'S 
4oou syed FAIS93Y 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

¢ 
1 - Biaison Section 
1 - Mr. O'Connor 
62=83389¢ 
BY COURIER SERVICE 
September 20, 1956 
Director of Special Investigations 
The Inspector General 
Department of the Air Force 
Building Tempo BF 
4th and Adams Drive, 
S,W, 
From: 
John kd 
Pederal 
Subject? 
"HE AsPsheO. BULLETIN 
1722 VAN COURT 
‘LAMOGORDO, NEW 
MEXICO 
MISCELLANEOUS = INFORMATION CON CERNING 
On August 31, 1956, Harian WN, Foid, 1829a North Market 
Street, St. Louts, Missourt, who ts employed as an electrician, 
Department 155, MeDonnell Aireraft Corporation, furnished the 
St. Louis Office of this Bureau with information that he and 
@ group of his fellow workers have subscribed to a Publication 
captioned "The 4.PsR.0. Bulletin,” which contains articles about 
flying saucers. 
Wold advised he answered an advertisement in 
@ magazine and subscribed to this publication for one year, at 
a cost of $3.00. 
Wo1d further advised that in his opinion, the 
Publtcation slurred and criticized the U. &, Air Force and offteials 
of the U. S. Air Poree, 
‘ 
No action is contemplated in this matter by this 
) Bureau. 
a 
ot 
OTE ON YELLOW: 
4 
xX 
COMM: 
| 
: 
te 
Snee 
Nichols 
f 
Bureau, files are 
0 Prve—C ONGSTNEMIO GAEL OED Publication 
¥»* 
Bossa 
ind in viewmlof the fact that it deals with flying saucers and that 
eee 
the established policy has been to refer matters 
of this type 
nal 
to, the-Air Force, noifurther action is deemed necessary. 
arsons 
Rosen 
Tamm 
JIO"Csebm 
Nease 
(5) 
Winterrowd — 
Tele. Room — 
Holloman —_ 
} 


--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---

October 12, 1956 
Migs Esther-Be Fillion 
12 Hope Street 
Stamford, Connecticut 
Dear Miss Fillion: 
Your letter of October 5, 1956, with enclosure, has 
been received. 
I want to thank you for the interest which prompted 
your writing and for your very kind words concerning my administra- 
tion of this Bureau. 
The information contained in your letter and the 
enclosure does not fall within the investigative jurisdiction of the 
FBI, and I am taking the liberty of forwarding a copy of your letter, 
as well as a copy of the enclosure, to the Director, Office of Special 
Investigations, The Inspector General, Department of the Air Force, 
The Pentagon, Washington 25, D. C. 
Sincerely yours, 
John Edgar Hoover 
; yor’ 
Director 
Copy of incoming and enclosure sent by form to The Ingppctor General, 
Department of the Air Force. 
FJH:jfm 
(3) 


--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---

trek at, 
AL onatd ated  aeluaeg ee 
Whe Jue aay 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

Od pyc 
ont” AG 
ao 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

yV 
< 1-4 aA* 
. 
Vthanfpe 
/ | 
Te 
Cpnarattlend 
on 
AR rece +L 
} 
. 
OAL 
ea LD 
DA V 
/ 
iL, 
ann NS i saerbtcarcteaaiaad Ore Atak ing 
/ New. 
ign 
dts) Al diate 
} 
tL 
Gorn 7 
0 
i 
f 
tf OAN ha 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

TRU@ory 
12 Hope St. 
Stamford, Conn. 
October 5, 1956 
Mr. J. Edgar Hoover 
Director of F. B.I. 
Washington, D.C. 
Dear Mr. Hoover: 
Enclosed is a copy of a Lecture sent to me from 
Detroit. I think it is the most fascinating Research ever made. 
In your busy life you may not have encountered it, 
so I thought I would send you a copy. 
Why doesn't the Government come out with the truth 
about unidentified Flying Objects ? 
Everybody seems to accept the "Saucers" as a matter 
of course, and people are becoming annoyed at the "ostrich stance" 
our Leaders have taken about them. 
A number of clergymen feel that the time has come for 
someone to answer intelligently and sincerely the public's inquiries. 
They have gone to ''The Book''--the Sacred Bible where man can always 
find the answers to all his needs, doubts, fears--and inquiries! 
Ihave heard many people say that you probably have all 
the answers--but I suppose you have been throttled too! 
I'm so glad you refused to accept the invitation to run 
for President. You would have been a good one--(if you could be let 
alone)--but sordid Party politics would have engulfed you too much. 
To the Legions of your admirers you stand too High-- 
are too clean and honest to become so involved. 
Thanks to Almighty God there are character Influences 
like you still standing on the same firm ground of our Forefathers. 
Each day now a few more chips are knocked off the pillars 
of Learning, High morals, decent behavior and honest standards. Where 
can it all end? The days are becoming wearisome and fearful; surely the 
repercussions are shaking the outer walls of even Our Father's House. 
I wonder what the God of Our Fathers is going to do about 
1?) 
With deepest respect, 
gf 
Esther D. Fillion 


--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---

"Flying 
Saucers" have made 
written about 
ange powers, 
cly books of 
our owr 
for 
um 
factuality 
economy of 
Prone 
Bible, 
n the 
true, 
day 
ng" 
had no 
which came 
cloud, bird, 
enough 
ad 
are 
Ot 
menclature, 
ace 
To understa 
minolo 
today. 
nd our own 
y of yester-y: 
The 1 
of 
tants 
clouds, 
"syvace 
Angels or "space-men" have be 
way back in the Olid Te 
in 
the evening. 
Wh 
f with 
his face to the groun 
then 
av. 
of the 
theological 
v should have more place 
6 not surpris 
"flying" clouds, rolls, chari ots, wheels 
to 
both seg ad 
equate words 
from 
chariot or 
scientifi 
priate, 
he rose 
and 
Bible) 
icers 
The 
and on 
sho 
al 
NOWe 
for many months 
i 
cha 
wn that "fly 
destruction, 
ny thousand 
en seen and 
But what is 
ing 
tk 
riots" 
of 
ported 
new 
have be 
"flying saucer", 
confi 
it is 
° 
now a= 
matter, 
ace, and if 
ve some place 
in our thi 
mentioned in our own 
upon investigati 
nd people, m Aes oned 
mal: 
a@ great many mysterious 
of-fact and encouraging! 
=a 
inhabit should 
k- 
>ct them 
ed, 
to 
to describe the things 
coe 
it 
thing flew, it 
angel, 
We, today, should 
ally to call objects from outer- 
But the 
Ua 
a téa-party 
or is 
lity 
1 
oeeds, and t+ 
outer 
Eas 
ogical ter- 
eminology of 
It can 
be noth~ 
of today. 
An 
r 
ids. 
If 
ve 
1d call them "space 
chariots 
ipture we call 
clarification of but thes 
place quite naturally. 
or 
tr 
‘of 
a 
se 
They've walked on earth, 
We 
read 
angels (or space-men) 
to Sodom 
to meet them, and bowed hin 
spoke to them and offered ther 
Pp 
fe! 
came 
He 
hospitality. 
They did hi 
two space-men sub 
stroyed 
with 
ma favor too, 
sequently led an attack 
“brimstone and fire out of heaven (space)" 
They savea his life! 
For these 
on Sodom and Gomorrah and de- 
(G 
19). 
Lt: 
(Gen, 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

Daniel (Dan, 9:21) calls the angel Gabriel, a man, 
He describes this 
spacé-man as coming to him in "swift flight at the time of the evening 
sacrifice", and he also describes the interview which followed, 
Numer- 
ous incidents are mentioned in scripture of space-men landing on earth 
and contacting earth-men, usually bringing to them an important message, 
About three hundred such incidents can be listed} 
They brought help as 
well as destruction, these men from outer-space or heaven, 
BS believe that we should take these observations more matter-of-factly, 
We are not dealing with mythology here, 
A literal understanding of 
hese incidents in.modern thought-patterns brings Sayer eine clarity 
e 
: 
ur religion should bécomé more materislistic in order to con- 
form with scripture, and not vice-versa as our clerics and others have 
been telling us for so long, 
We have practically and mistakenly spiri- 
tualized religion out of existence, and thus caused the great divorce 
between science and religion. 
True sciences is true religion. 
These angels 
- 
i 
i 
8 
space-men, described ace Ratonep enen teee Dy tates dows oct tce 
heaven (space) wrapped ina cloud", 
Let us call symbolical language 
and oriental imagery by their right names, 
To be "wrapped in a cloud" 
Beas vo be surrounded by an object, 
In other words, this space-man 
was piloting & space-ship, 
How else couid the observers of that day 
neve epee cued this phenomenon? That "flying" clouds don't refer to 
bimaeer (re MeL eee from the quotation, "Who are those that fly like a 
Piyine alent’ 
es 
qhe following literal description of a supposed 
Brea ae 
Ne 
0 
decide the matter, 
"A stormy wind came out of 
eee 
2 a 
great cloud, with brightness round about it, and fire 
as ing forth continually, and in the midst of the fire, as it were 
gleaming bronze, 
And from the midst of it came the likeness of four 
living creatures (spacemen)" (Bzk, Aa 
The space-man mentioned above had a "rainbow over his head", namely 
vari-colored lights shone from a canopy over his head which shall be 
described later, 
Light "like the sun" came from this space-ship, and 
its 
"legs", no doubt landing-gear, were "like pillars of fire", 
The 
whole earth was lit up 
by the power of the light given off by this 
space-ship (Rev, 18:1), 
Besides describing these "space-ships" as "flying" clouds, they are 
also described asa "flying roll" (Zech, 5:1), in other words "saucer" 
or "cigar" shaped. 
An approximate size estimated by an observer of 
that century who had no knowledge of perspective or distance, is in- 
cluded in this description, 
They are also described as a "flying ser- 
pent" (Isa, 14:29 - 30:6), referring no doubt to the long trail of 
fire left by the space-ship's exhaust, 
However, the clearest, most prominent, most detailed, and most appro- 
priate name given these flying-ships or space-ships, and one which we 
would well adopt as the most scientific is, "WHIRLING WHEELS", as the 
reporter Ezekiel calls them (Ezk, 1). 
This reporter now gives the most 
detailed description of the so-called "flying saucer" in existence to- 
day - many details of which have been verified by modern observers and 
some even caught by camera, 
"Now as I looked at the living creatures (space-men) I saw a wheel upon 
the earth (the space-ship had evidently landed), one for each of the 
four of them (four space-ships in all), 
The appearance of the wheels 
was like the gleaming of a chrysolite (transparent or translucent olive- 
green), 
Their construction being as it were a wheel within a wheel, 
: 
they had spokes and rims (recent observations and pictures have verified 
this description of an outer rim and an inner wheel, etc.). 
And when 
the living creatures (space-men) rose from the earth, the wheels rose, 
for the spirit of the living creatures was in the wheels", 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

The last sentence is extremely interesting. 
The reporter claims that 
when the space-men rose the wheels rose with them, 
That is exactly 
what a person of an unmechanical age would say. 
Men can move, but not 
an object, 
So they described the men as carrying the ships with them, 
We, of course would say the opposite, namely that the wheels or space- 
ships carried the space-men, 
The "whirling wheels" are described as "full of eyes", in other words, 
full of round openings, port-holes, or power outlets, "all around and 
within", 
This description again tallies with observations and photo- 
graphs made recently, 
The space-ships are described as "darting to and fro, like the flash 
of lightning" (Ezk. 
1). 
"When they went they went in any of their 
four directions without tu 
ing as they went. 
In whatever direction 
the front wheel (or 
Nag 
the others followed without turning 
as they went", 
vribing their unbelievable maneuverability 
"without turning", this also seems to claim that they flew in forma- 
tion, following a leader (also see Ezk, 10:9), 
The fuel or power for these space-ships is found in the middle of the 
space-ship, 
It is described as "fire between the whirling wheels" 
(Ezk, 16:6), 
"In the midst there was something that looked like burn- 
ing coals of fire, like torches moving to and fro, and the fire was 
bright, and out of the fire went forth lightning" (Ezk. 1). 
And now there follows a detail which is the very acme of veracity. 
"Over the head of the living creatures (space-men) there was the like- 
ness of a firmament (the protective canopy over a pilot's head) shin- 
ing like crystal (transparent glass), spread out above their heads" 
(Ezk, 1). 
This "glass globe" has also been observed on the "flying 
saucers" of today and photographed, 
It also seems that flying orders 
are given by remote control via radio or wireless. 
A voice is said 
to come "from above the firmament (canopy) over their heads", 
It is 
also claimed by this biblical reporter that part of these space-ships 
is collapsible and other parts retractable, 
The latter is perhaps 
the central turret which will be described later. 
In flight these "whirling wheels" give off music (Rev. 4:8). 
This 
phenomenon has been reported in the holy books of other faiths much 
older than our own, 
"It's like the sound of many waters, like the 
thunder of the Almighty, a sound of tumult like the sounds of a host" 
(Ezk, 1:24 - 3:13), 
The word "host" is important to keep in mind be- 
cause it refers no doubt to the great number of these space-ships fly- 
ing together, 
The insignia which seems to be on the outer surface of 
the space-whips are recognizable as a cherub (a humorous or should we 
say "human" touch), the face of a man, a lion, and an eagle (Ezk. 1). 
These space-ships are given orders to patrol the earth, "Go and patrol 
the earth" (Zech, 6). 
On the basis of what we have learned, certain events in scripture now 
are understandable and acceptable. Enoch, it is reported, went to 
another world without dying (Heb. 11:5), as perhaps Moses did also, 
Jacob thought he had a vision when he saw "a ladder set up on the 
earth and beheld angels or space-men, ascending and descending on it" 
(Gen. 28), 
The ladder obviously was let down from a space-ship for 
some purpose or other, 
Space-men had a particular interest in Jacob 
it seems, for on a later occasion he wrestled with one of them, the 
space-man only playing with Jacob until it was time for the space-man 
to go, whereupon he partially paralyzed Jacob (Gen. 32). 
It is inter- 
esting to note that space-men usually appear around sunset, during the 
night, or at sunrise. 
Through some whirl-wind-like action Elijah dis- 
appeared into space vig a "flying chariot" (II Kings 2:11). 
Moses 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

and Elijah came to meet Jesus on the Mount of Transfiguration via "a 
bright cloud", 
We know what these "clouds" were, 
The "cloud" disap- 
peared with them again, 
The poor man in Luke 16, was carried by space- 
men into another world, 
Do space~men carry away into heaven or space 
the "souls" of the dead? A woman in Rev, 12, was given unusual loco- 
motive powers to escape her enemy, 
These instances can be multiplied 
hundreds of times !! 
Even God's activities now become clearer! 
God's presence in scripture 
is described "like birds hovering" (Isa, 31:5). 
The hovering is a 
hovering of some flying object, 
"Clouds" are called Nis chariot, with 
them comes the wind, fire and flame (Ps. 104). 
One reads of "a swift 
cloud" (Isa, 19:1), in other words a space-ship, 
Note the following 
descriptions 
"Then the earth reeled and rocked: 
the foundations also 
of the mountains trembled and quaked, because He was angry. 
Smoke went 
up from His nostrils, and devouring fire from His mouth: 
glowing coals 
flamed forth from Him, 
He bowed the heavens and came down, 
Thick dark- 
ness was under His feet, 
He rode on a cherub and flew. 
We came swiftly 
upon the wings of the wind" (Ps, 18), 
We have discussed these signs 
above, 
They describe a space-ship, although the observer here, in not 
seeing the pilot, describes the space-ship as though it were a person, 
Perhaps in this case this space-ship might be God's own private space- 
ship or the so-called "mother" ship, Why should we deny God the right 
to make a machine and use it too, if He wants to? 
God's presence with Israel in the desert was via a "pillar of cloud" in 
the day and by night a "pillar of fire"; the fire of course would not be 
visible in the sky by day (Exo. 13) 
Out of this cloud God harassed the 
Egyptians. 
In Isa, 66, it is rencauad "for behold the Lord will come in 
fire and His chariots like the storm-wind with flames of fire", 
And a- 
gain, "His chariots are like the whirlwind" (Jer, 4:13), 
Psalms 68:17, 
claims that God lived on Mount Sinai for a while with 20,000 chariots, 
Big "clouds" settled on Mount Sinai with "fire" and "smoke" for forty 
days, 
Moses was given the tablets of the law on this mountain, through 
the intervention of space-men, @@ Paul tells us, 
Sinai seems to have 
been God's headquarters for a certain maneuver at this time. 
Space-men 
with their ships always seem to be present when God's Bee le are in dan- 
ger, 
Even a difficult passage like "And the 'glory't of 
the Lord went up 
from the midst of the city and stoad upon the mountain" (Ezk, 11:23), 
now becomes clear, 
It means that the ships took off from the middle of 
the city, the take-off place, and then landed on a mountain, 
Neither should we forget that God is called the Lord of "Sabbaoth" in 
the Bible, which means the Lord of "hosts" or "armies" - real armies, 
space-armies, 
This name "the Lord of hosts", is the most used name for 
God in the Bible, 
He is the God of war, 
This title is used hundreds 
of times together with the complementary phrase "hosts of heaven", or 
hosts of space, 
Jacob once saw the whole assembled army. 
We read, 
"The angels (space-men) of God met him and when Jacob saw them he said, 
'This is God's army'." (Gen, 32), 
These hosts were at one time an ob-~ 
ject of worship by earth-men, 
It seems that God often came down out of 
heaven or space to earth to fulfill His plans and to carry out certain 
campaigns. 
When the space-ships were stationary and when the central turret was 
raised, they looked like thrones, and are so-called in scripture, 
"His 
throne was fiery flames, its wheeJs were burning fire, a stream of fire 
issued and came forth from before Him" (Dan, 7:9). 
No ordinary thrones 
these, but space-ships! 
In Rev. &, we have a unique description of the 
"mother" ship and twenty-four others on a landing-field which looked 
like a "sea of glass-like crystal", and from them all came flashes of 
lightning, voices and peals of thunder", 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

these things are re- 
His powers of levitation, His ability to pass through doors, 
ter, and heal the 
ck, are the 
sential 
a 
u 
s of men 
also be ours someday 
y¥ 
we 
will be "free 
At Jesus' bi 
the celestial army c 
quite 
ce-man 
eared to the preerrce and the "glory" 
fied. with the usual signs of His presence, 
one around th 
a multitude of the heavenly az 
with ae space-man, 
And” 
ir cosmic 
ouncement, the music of their space-ships was 
heard as they again dis 
ared into space, 
Jesus! 
ascension is 
out bet 
the ir sight" 
(A 
3 
Hi 
1 
s to be in the same 
"Then will 
appez 
: 
i 
3 
Sor 
in heaven (space 
g 
en (space) 
with power and 
t glory" ( 
He 
will come 
with His whole army 
will 
ak 
2 
world, 
Jesus comes 
1 
nquer; ¢ 
o 
ings, and Lord of lords, 
is 
ive epee 
of 
semen, 
which He refused to 
time of His betrayal, 
He will appear on a white "horse" 
"shooting flames of fir 
leading 
ole fleet of 
from whose mouths issue sharp swords", no doubt bl 
Signals all the 
"birds that fly in mid-hea 
se) to the cosmic conflict, with the wo 
orld will be destroyed by God's black 
space-ships leap 
on top of the mountains to await the sig- 
attack (Joel 3:5) 
That day will be a day of da 
and 
gloom and of hydrogen and cobalt clouds, 
"Like blackness the 
3 
spread upon the mountains a great and powerful people, their like has 
en from of old nor will be again. 
Fire devours before them, 
id 
behind them a flame burns, 
The land is like the Garden of Eden be- 
fore them, but after them a desolate wilderness". 
rth-men who have pleased God in the meantime, will "ascend up into 
in a space-ship in the sight of their foes" (Rev. 11), 
Paul 
it this way, "We will be caught up together with them in th 
ce-ships) to meet the Lord in the air" (I Thess. 4:17). 
In this manner a remnant of earth-men will literally be rescued or 
saved.,.... For what? 
For the "Father's house in which are many rooms", or as some transla- 
tors put it, "stopping-pla 
» “resting-stations" or "filling-stations" 
if you wish, or the 
way to outer-space and beyond. 
All the planets 
and universes in outer space are there for a good and glorious pury 
They are not just dead dust, 
hey are the planets on which these 
men live, and we too will some ay live. 
This clear understanding of things as 
they are and as they will be, is 
for our comfort, 
We should always r 
ber that God's people are always 
protected by a circle of space-ships, 
We are surrounded by so great a 
cloud of witnesses", we read in Heb. 12, 
The whole heavenly host once 
came out to protect but one man, Elijah (II Kings 6:17), 
"Behold the 
mountain was full of horses and chariots of fire", 
And Elijah was saved 
or rescued right from under the noses of a whole city full of enemies. 
God's word to us knowing all this is: 
"Fear not, for those who are with 
us are more than those who are with them!" .., 
May our prayer be, -- 
"O, Lord, open our eyes that we may see," 
(II Kings 6:17) 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

Office MemoRandum 
TO 
+: 
DIRECTOR, FBI 
DATE: 4/11/57 
J 
M 
+: 
SAC, RICHMOND (62-779) 
SUBJECT!" 
~AERIAL PHENOMENON RESEARCH GROUP 
MISCELLANEOUS INFORMATION CONCERNING 
¢ UNITED 
5 GOVERNMENT 
Attached are two copies of a letter to the 
District Commander of OSI at Langley Field, Va.s 
which are being forwarded to the Bureau for information. 
2 - Bureau (este -8) 
1 - Seattle (Enel.1 
1 - Richmond 
RET: fec 
(4) 


--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---

* 
i + 
i 
r 
United States Department of Justice 
Feared Tiavh sé taeda 
ie 
Richmond, Virginia 
January 11, 1957 
District Commander 
2lst District 
Office of Special Investigations 
Langley Air Force Base, Virginia 
RE: AERIAL PHENOMENON RESEARCH GROUP 
MISCELLANEOUS INFORMATION CONCERNING 
Dear Sir: 
Mrs. Margaret Blunt, 7606 Sweetbriar Road, Richmond, 
Virginia, advised this office on January 2, 1957, that she 
had received a letter from captioned organization requesting 
she furnish any information she might have relative to her 
alleged observation of a "flying saucer" @ year or so ago 
near Richmond, Virginia. Mrs. Blunt informed she is employed 
by the Richmond Quartermaster Depot of the United States 
Army and it was while on her way to work one morning that 
she had sighted the object in question. She stated that 
several other women employees of the Depot were present 
and subsequently one of these women had told a newspaper 
reporter about the incident and all their names had appeared 
in the papers. 
Mrs. Blunt advised that she was reluctant to answer 
the letter as she felt it could ke an illegal or subversive 
group who was trying to obtain information they should not 
have. She pointed out that she knew nothing about the 
organization but the correspondence did not reflect the 
group was connected with the United States Government in any 
way. 
She informed that the letter indicated the group 
was @ national organization whose duty it was to investigate 
any and all unusual aerial phenomenon. It also reflected 
that one Bob Gribble was the Executive Director and Jim 
Ewart was the Director of Investigations. The address for 
this organization was shown to be 5108 Finlay Street, Seattle, 
* Washington. 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

District Commander 
January 11, 1957 
The above data is being furnished for your 
information, it being noted that the files of this office 
contain no reference to this organization. 
Very truly yours, 
W. G. GRAPP 
Special Agent in Charge 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

RECORDED - 54 
Feb 
20, 1957 
INDEXED - 54 
eae aig 
oe 
Mr. Hagan Parrish 
Sheriff of Polk County 
Post Office Box 631 
My dear Sheriff: 
Your letter dated February 8, 1957, has 
been received, and I want to thank you for bringing the 
enclosed material to our attention. 
Since the contents of your communication 
are of primary concern to another governmental agency, 
I am taking the liberty of forwarding a copy of your letter 
and a copy of its enclosure to the Director of Special 
Investigations, The Inspector General, Department of the 
Air Force, Building Tempo E, Fourth and Adams Drive, 
Southwest, Washington, D. C. 
Sincerely yours, 
comm — Fai | 
{ 
John Edgar 
ver a Se 
Direc 
cc - Seattle, with copy of soni 
ofits enclosure \ wes 
10 
Re Richmond letter 1-11-57 @gpt: 
erial Phenomena 
Research Group, Miscellan¢ous Information Concerning.” 
bl som 
a 
SEATTLE Whsh, 
Jichols 
NOTE: Bufiles reflect that a citizen in Richmond, Virginia, received 
{scien 
a similar letter earlier this year from the Aerial Phenomena Research 
Group of the same type forwarded by correspondent. OSI at Langley 
Field, Virginia, made a copy of it available to the Bureau. (62-83894-372) 
No other pertinent references located. 
Copieg,of incqming and its 
enclosure sent to OSI by form. y 
eu 
tw 
WA 
VY 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

s 
HAGAN PARRISH 
SHERIF® 
s 
HAMP ROGERS, CHIEF 
CRIMINAL DIVISION 
RES. WINTER HAVEN, CY 3-0052 
R, BRUCE ALBRITTON, CHiEF 
ADMINISTRATIVE 
RES. FT. MEADE, AT 4-3955 
COUNTY - POLK 
ST ATE °F 
F L-OUR 
1_0 A 
BART 
PHONES: 
OFFICE 3-7011 - JAIL 3-7171 
on Februa 
Sineerely, 
Whgan 
] 
Ow, FLORIDA 
REPLY REF. 
298 
nln eee 
ai FEB 26 1957 
a 
ae 


--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---

ENCLOSURE 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

Aerial Phenomena Research Group 
Seattle, Washington 
Headquarters: 
Bob Gribble 
5108 Findlay Street 
Executive Director 
Dear Sir: 
Several reports of unidentified flying objects seen over cities 
j 
j 
/ 
in your section of the country since 
or 
Lo 
have recently arrived at our office. 
We would appreciate names and 
addresses of witnesses reporting unidentified flying objects or other 
aerial phenomenon to your office during this period. 
All names and 
addresses will be held strictly confidential, to be used only when 
contacting the witnéss for information regarding their experience. 
We are a national organization whose objectives are to invest- 
igate and determine the nature of unidentified flying objeots and 
related phenomena. 
Any information you can give us pertaining to this 
matter will be greatly appreciated. 
Thanking you in advance, I am 
Sincerely yours 
Director of Investigations 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

STANDARD FORM NO. 64 
Office Mer Pindum « UNITED es 
GOVERNMENT 
TO 
2 
Mr. Tolson 
ao 
DATE: 
March 15, 1957 
z 
hid bo a Cy a es 
Tolson 
s 
/ Drea 5 enue 
se 
Ya ahs 
AM Nice ae 
es eee 
i 
ets fo 
$7 ~ eae ae 
‘ 
(L byeas— 
eee: 
Steet pinEan.., Dagon ty 
fl georone 
Parsons 
C 
IN ST’ 
(Ss 
\ 
- 
Rosen 
GREAT MEADOWS, NEW JERSEY 
Gok 
Trotter 
For record purposes, John Stuart Martin (Great Meadows, ‘°™ 
New Jersey, telephone Mercury 7-2683) telephoned from his home at 12:52 p.m., 
March 14, 1957, while I was tied up on another matter, and talked with Wick. 
Martin, age 56, is one of the original founders of ''Time" magazine, was 
employed by Louis de Rochemont on our movie, "House on 92nd Street," 
and 
he formerly was editor of March of Time."" He married Mar} Gilbert, whom 
he says is known to the Director. He has one arm. 
| 
Martin said, to make a long story short, that he has run into 
, 
Ja situation which has to do with an unidentified flying object observed two days 
ies in the Great Meadows vicinity. Martin said he had made a formal report 
YF 
in writing to military authorities, as well as to two civilian groups interested 
in the affair. General Wedemeyer is connected with one of the latter groups. 
is being handled properly, nor does he know to whom he should submit infor- 
mation and in what fashion. He said frankly he wanted an Agent to call upon 
him so that the Agent could evaluate his information, although he said he well 
| 
knew:"flying saucers," etc. , were not within the scope of the FBI's interest 
~ 
nor jurisdiction. 
T 
{ 
| 
Martin said he is not satisfied that the "intelligence"' he supplied to the military 
vy 
(The attached news ticker from United Press reflects that in 
testimony before a House Appropriations Subcommittee, 2-19-57, 
Dr. Hugh 
Dryden, Director of the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics, had — 
flatly stated there is no such thing as a flying saucer. It was said too that the 
Air Force or some other authority should nail down the unidentified "flying < 
objects" and "say it is pure fiction. "') 
. 
ACTION TAK 
tow~ 
ACTION TARE: 
- 
VY PENC 1. 
While normally we would simply tell a caller that we have no 
jurisdiction! and that he should refer such matter to the proper military 
cc: Mr. Boardman 
 kECORDED - 36 
Z 
Z 
cc: Mr. Belmont 
\NDEXED - 36 
REW:af 
HA) 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

z= 
= 
~ 
ig 4 
IN~ O3A139ay 
1G. Wd 00 » 
SI0H9 
AAD 
NOS WG 
UGeWd 1S S| WY 
I@d 
yoLdayic-GaA/303u 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

Nichols to Tolson memo 
March 15, 1957 
authorities, in this instance, because of Martin's demonstrated friendliness 
to the Bureau and the Director, his sane and reasonable approach to matters 
and his apparent concern for the welfare of our country, I instructed Wick 
to have the Newark Office have an Agent when in the vicinity of Great Meadows 
simply drop by Mr. Martin's home to see what he has in mind. 
ASAC Commons of the Newark Office told Wick he would have 
an Agent drop by to see Martin and would send a letter to the Bureau covering 
results. 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

. Parsons 
. Rosen 
. Tamm 
. Trotter 
. Nease ——__ 
Tele. Room —__ 
Mr. Holloman —_ 
Miss Gandy 
) 
_.THE DIRECTOR OF THE GOVERNMENT'S TOP AIR RESEARCH AGENCY HAS. TOLD 
(CONGRESS FLATLY-THAT THERE IS NO SUCH THING AS A FLYING SAUCER. 
THE ASSURANCE CAME FROM DRe HUGH Ls DRYDEN, DIRECTOR OF THE NATIONAL 
ADVISORY COMMITTEE FOR baad te AT 
A CLOSED=DooR HEARING BY A HOUSE 
APPROPRIATIONS SUBC OMMITT 
THE TESTIMONY, TAKEN ont FEB. 19, WAS MADE PUBLIC TODAY. 
DRYDEN AND OTHER WACA OFF IC TALS ee 
GEN. JAMES As a egal 
3 (FLYING SAUCERS) 
\ 
THE ACENCY CHAIRMAN WERE QUESTIONED ABOUT 
A REPORT PUBLISHED IN 
GERMANY THAT THE NAZIS DEVELOPED SHORTLY BEFORE THE END OF WORLD WAR 
Il 
A 138=FOOT SAUCER THAT ROSE TO 40,000 FEET AND FLEW AT A SPEED OF 
1,250 MILES AN HOUR. 
STHERE Is NO TRUTH IN THAT STATEMENT," DRYDEN SAIDe “THIS IS AN 
ADVERTISEMENT FOR 
A BOOKes." 
REP. ALBERT THOMAS (D=TEX.), SUBCOMMITTEE CHAIRMAN, PRESSING FOR A 
MORE CONCLUSIVE STATEMENT, ASKEDs 
"IS THERE NO SUCH THING AS A FLYING SAUCER AND THE GERMANS 
DIDN'T HAVE IT IN 1945 AND DON'T HAVE IT YET? 
“THAT IS RIGHT,® SAID DRYDEN. 
DRYDEN ALSO DENIED A RELATED CLAIM THAT THE NAZIS HAD PERFECTED A 
BER THAT COULD TT THE ese AND RETURN WITHOUT REFUELING. 
*YOU HAVE TO DISTINGUISH HARDWARE FROM IDEAS," DRYDEN HELA eng 
3/14~-EG11408 
a 
6a 
- 43494 - F7F 
WASHINGTON CITY NEWS SERVICE 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

iS. 
Wd 6S 
PL aH 
q 4 
4 
PRIEREL 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

. Tolson 
. Nichols 
“Mr.-Boardmai 
. Belmont 
. Mohr 
. Parson: 
. Rosen 
. Tamm 
. Trotter 
. Nease ——_ 
Tele. Room 
Mr. Holloman —_ 
Miss Gandy 
DOOLITTLE ALSO DISCOUNTED THE PUBLISHED ACCOUNT OF THE SAUCER AND 
INTERCONTINENTAL BOMBER, WARNING HOWEVER THAT BACKERS OF THE BOOK 
PROBABLY WOULD USE THE DENIALS $AS ANOTHER LEG UP® TO PUBLICIZE iT. 
IN REFERENCE TO FREQUENTLY PUBLISHED “SIGHTINGS® OF WHAT OFFICIALLY 
fers 
ADD 1 FLYING SAUCERS 
| 
a 
ARE CALLED “UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS" THOMAS SAJD THE AIR FORCE, 
OR 
SOME OTHER AUTHORITY, “OUGHT TO, ONCE AND FOR ALL, NAIL IT DOWN AN Say 
IT IS PURE FICTION.® 
KE SAID THE AIR FORCE HAD “HEMMED AND HAWED® ON THE BEE 
Ea a 
A REFERENCE TO THE 1955 AIR FORCE REPORT THAT IT HAD INVESTIGATED 5,000 
Ly tg SIGHTINGS AND FOUND 
*°NO EVIDENCE® OF THE EXISTENCE OF 
x THIS WASN'T QUITE THE SAME THING AS SAYING THE SAUCERS DID NOT 
IST, 
AS DRYDEN MOW HAS ASSERTEDS 
5 
3/L4"°EC 11458 
ba -G887¢ - F7F 
WASHINGTON CITY NEWS SERVICE 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

AS, HWSS 1] 
py aay 
re 
iad 
UOLS Syd ay yay 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

STANDARD FORM NO. 64 
Office Memorandum e UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT 
TO 
: 
Director, FBI (62-8389) 
Y 
4/18/57 
4 
Nn FROM : 
SAC, Norfolk 
SUBJECT: 
CIVILIAN RESEARCH 
> @ J 
Ks 
ols 
INTERPLANETARY FLYING OBJECTS 
Tes 
f\ 
ty 
#\ 
| 
IZONARD H.STRINGFIELD, Director, 
I, 
7017 Britton Ave., Cincinnati 27, Ohio 
a 
MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION CONCERNING 
1 
! 
| 
Re Cincinnati letter to Bureau 4/12/57, copies for Norfolk, requesting 
Norfolk check indices regarding EVA REICH, M.D. (Mrs. WILLIAM S. MOISE} 
Route 1, P. 0. Box 721, Alexandria, Va. 
} 
j 
Inasmuch as Alexandria, Va., is covered by the Richmond Office, 
| 
both copies of relet designated for Norfolk, as well as enclosure, 
f| 
are being forwarded to Richmond for appropriate handling. Norfolk 
indices negative re Dr. REICH. 
fr 
\ 
(2 /- Bureau 
1 - Cincinnati (100-11671) (Info.) 
2 - Richmond (3 Encl.) (REGISTERED MAIL 
) 
1 - Norfolk 
JEM:SNB 
i 
(6) 
RECORDED-38 
G7 APR30 1957 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

SCAT 
90.) U39 § p 
+ 
ae 
8 
is: 
CUNIAGy 
eh 
Gy 
tb] vy 
Sarina 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

‘sn 
4 
fice Memo: ‘andum * UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT 
Director, FBI (62-8389) 
pate: 4/12/57 
SAC, Cincinnati (100-11671) 
CIVILIAN RESEARCH, 
INTERPLANETARY FLYING OBJECTS 
LEONARD H,. STRINGFIELD, Director, 
7017 Britton Avenue 
| 
/ 
Cincinnati 27, Ohio 
{$$ —- 
MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION CONCERNING 
Pv om 
Hilo 
On March 25, 1957, LEONARD 
HZ STRINGFIELD appeared at 
the Cincinnati Office for the purpose of calling attention to a 
letter dated March 19 
7, which he had received from EV++ 
CH, 
M.D. (Mrs. WILLIAM 
OISE, Route 1, P.O. Box 721, Alexandria, 
Virginia, telephone 
South 5-7081). 
wrest 
For the information of the Bureau and the Norfolk Office, 
Mr. STRINGFIELD is presently the Advertising Manager for Dubois 
Company, Inc., 1120 W. Front Street, Cincinnati, Ohio. 
According 
to STRINGFIELD, he has been interested in flying discs or objects 
for a number of years and has cooperated with the United States 
Air Force to the extent of furnishing the Air Force with any 
\ 
information on flying objects coming to his attention. 
Mr. STRING- 
Vv 
FIELD was also the publisher of a paper called the "Orbit", which 
carried the following heading: 
"The official publication of 
\ 
Civilian Research, Interplanetary Flying Objects". 
The "Orbit" 
< 
(| 
was a monthly publication which carried information and intellige ol 
research by STRINGFIELD on flying objects. According to STRINGFIELDS 
the "Orbit" had a limited circulation. 
In connection with Dr. REICH's letter, STRINGFIELD 
stated that prior to the receipt of the letter he received a long 
distance telephone call from Dr. REICH on March 12, 1957. 
This 
. 
call was received by him in the early morning prior to his departure’ 
for work. 
He related that Dr. REICH was a subscriber to the "Orbit" 
and that during the phone conversationshe made reference to some 
of his reports which he had published in the "Orbit" and for the 
most part spoke on matters that were "over his head" and things 
that he did not understand. According to STRINGFIELD, she concluded 
the conversation by, stating she would write him a letter, which 
BG 
letter was the reason for his call on the FBI 
/ 
Z uf 
"4 
2 = Bureau (62-8389) 
(RM) (Enclosures - 2) 
? 
APR WE, 1957 
2 - Norfolk brace re = 
6 
2 - Cincinnati (100-11671 
is 
<< 
(1 = 65-199k) 
RECORDED - 83 
oT ~ ANS 
: 
J 
ca 
Om 4 fac 
; 
INDEXED - 83 
_ 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

20s 9 Ld3qg D 
+ 
PMI99y 
(Ge Hd 1 p é] diy 
seg PNM 
San acs 4 
Ge HAE 
f 
TOES 
4 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

CI. 100-11671 
Mr. STRINGFIELD furnished the letter to this office 
but desired the same be returned to him and it should be noted that 
Dr. REICH speaks of STRINGFIELD testifying before some Congressional 
committee in connection with flying saucers and his publication. 
She further speaks of events designated "OROP Desert Ea" which 
STRINGFIELD knows nothing about. 
In the first paragraph of page 2 in speaking of the 
above event, she makes reference that there is evidence for 
espionage against this work and later adds that the FBI so far 
has declined to investigate as the subject is "not within their 
jurisdiction". 
It is further noted that she also speaks of the 
evidence of the “orgone energy motor", which STRINGFIELD has no 
knowledge of. 
Dr. REICH mentions a number of people as being 
former members on the staff of the expedition "OROP Desert Ea", 
For the information of the Bureau and Norfolk, persons 
mentioned by Dr. REICH in her letter have been checked through the 
Cincinnati indices with negative results. 
There are attached hereto two autostatic copies of 
Dr. REICH's letter to Mr. STRINGFIELD dated March 19, 1957, for 
the Bureau, and one copy for the Norfolk Office. 
The Norfolk Office 
is requested to check their indices on Dr. REICH and furnish the 
Bureau with any identifiable data concerning her and persons men- 
tioned in her letter of March 19, 1957. 
This office is returning 
the original to Mr. STRINGFIELD and is not maintaining a copy of 
the same in this office. 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

SAC, Cincinnati (100-11671) 
April 23; 
1957 
5 
2 
Director, FBI (62-83894) 
erenenen.- 63 
& 4 14 SMG 
CIVILIAN RESEARCH 
INTERPLANETARY FLYING OBJECTS 
LEONARD H. STRINGFIELD, DIRECTOR 
7017 BRITTON AVENUE 
CINCINNATI 27, OHIO 
MISCELLANEOUS + INFORMATION CONCERNING 
Reurlet April 12, 1957, captioned as above. 
Bufiles reflect that Eva Reich is the daughter of Dr. Wilhelm Reich, 
M.D. , Director of the Wilhelm Reich Institute, aka., The Orgone Institute Research 
Laboratories, Inc., at Rangeley, Maine. Dr. Wilhelm Reich, following extensive 
investigation by the Food and Drug Administration, United States Department of 
Health, Education and Welfare, in May, 1956, was found guilty of contempt of court 
following the issuance of an injunction harring interstate shipment of devices, 
literature and promotional material regarding treatments by Reich of cancer and 
other serious diseases, said devices having been described as worthless by the 
Food and Drug Administration. Following unsuccessful appeal efforts, Reich was 
imprisoned on March 12, 1957. Since early 1957, as well as previous thereto, 
Wilhelm Reich, Eva Reich, William Moise and other members of Reich's staff have 
directed voluminous correspondence to the Bureau, to various Bureau divisions, and 
other United States Government agencies and officials. None of the material reviewed 
at the Bureau has indicated any violations within the investigative jurisdiction of this 
Bureau. 
It is noted that Dr. Eva Reich (Mrs. William S. Moise) was recently 
interviewed by Special Agents of the Richmond Office assigned to the Alexandria, 
Virginia, Resident Agency at which time she furnished information in essence 
comparable with that set forth in her letter to Stringfield. She also indicated at 
that time that she had addressed similar information to the office of United States 
Senator Margaret Chase Smith and had contacted Assistant United States Attorney 
General William Tompkins. At that time Eva Reich, a naturalized citizen of the 
United States, also 
le 
ag derogatory comments relating to 
‘ asgatae | 
Boards = Nor folie END B 
STERED MAIL) 
Belmont 
Mohr 
\ 
\\ 
Parsons 
\ 
Rosen 
7) 
Tonm CFM: 
tp A 
Trotter 
(6) 
Nease 
Tele. 
oO 
v APR 
23.1957 
‘slot APR 30 1957 
MAILED 31 
Auee—Richmond, with 
ke (SEND BY REGISTERED MAIL) We mM 
COMM — FBI] 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

SAC, Cincinnati 
and government administration in the United States, representing possible 
admissions against interest. This information was furnished by the Bureau to 
Assistant Attorney General Tompkins and the Director of the Immigration and 
Naturalization Service. 
In view of the above information and in the absence of any 
indication that matters related by Eva Reich in her letter to Stringfield are within 
the Bureau's jurisdiction, Richmond should disregard the lead set out in the last 
paragraph of referenced Cincinnati letter. 
There is enclosed herewith for the Richmond Office an Autostat 
of Eva Reich's letter to Leonard Stringfield, Cincinnati, Ohio, dated March 19, 
1957. In view of Eva Reich's vague threatened use of force (set forth in the last 
paragraph of her letter to Stringfield), Richmond Division should promptly make 
this information available to appropriate local officials in Alexandria, Virginia. 


--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---

Mr. Leonard 3tringfield 
C,1eReF.0. Orbit 
701) Britton Avenue 
Cincinnati, 27» Ohio 
March 19, 1957 
Dear Mre Stringfield: 
This letter is to confirm and elaborate the contents of our telephone 
conversation on March 12, 1957. At that time I called you on my own initiative, 
ating as & planetary and U.S. citizen, who was a witness to @ series of facts 
and events designated "OROP Desert Ea". It was my aim to find out whether you 
would be willing to testify about the facts known to 
you concerning UFO 
sighting reports made by the civilian public in the USA 
and elsewhere, which 
as Editor of CRIFO Orbit you have collected and filed over several yearse 
I also wanted to \now whether under oath you would reveal what you now 
in your official capacity as former USAF Intelligence officer ( This information 
about you was gleaned from Edward J. Ruppelt's pook "The UFO Story"). I finally 
based my call on the title of your publication "The official Publication of 
Civilian Research, Interplanetary Flying Ob jects" 
as distinguished from the 
mystics ‘who dabble in the unknowns 
I informed you thet staffmembers of Expedition Orop Desert Ea, Arizon® » 
1954-1955 had lodged a charge of treason, fraud, per jury and conspiracy against 
certein government officials through the office of Senator Margaret Chase Smith 
on March 1, 1957. That these men had obstructed vitel civilian research 
on the space problem, and have now apparently succeeded in their treacherous 
attack through defrauding the US court as to the nature of the work carried on 
during Expedition Orop Desert Eas the discoverer of Life lmergy, Dre Wilhelm 
Reich being consequently imprisoned on March 12, 1957+ The staff members 
of Expedition Orop Desert Ea wish to stress that jn making their charges they 
are acting strictly on their own, on the basis of the respective facts know 
to each one. 
An investigation by the United States Congress has therefore been 
requested by Us» concerning the underlying facts in this unique scandal. 
What has to be opened up is the entire field of UFO phenomens, the Undue 
Secrecy by Airforce headquarters » and the suppression of public news concerning 
the subject. Evidence points to the existence of & widespread conspiracy of 
those who want to maintain the status quo of the present world view, the 
atomic-mechanistic empty space hypothesis, the THEY in the packground who 
want to kill all new knowledge by criminal means. Our evidence shows that"they" 
are in control of appar: tly all branches of the government « 
I feel personally 
unsure whether there 6x15 3 at this point any pona fide honest constitutional 
government. After the events of March 11,1957 the constitution is dead, Law and 
n 
rational or 
has failed. I am basing this statement on the fact that in spite 
of the 
fence on court record the 
ry ofthe Life 
Energy wa executed. For reference you 
strict 
Court where you will find Volume V Record Appendix to Briefs for Appellents, 
Case No. 5160, Supreme court Number 688, Secret and Suppres ed Evidence, Orop 
Desert Ba, 1964-1955. The Title of the 
"Contact with Space", Oranur, 
Second Report, 1961 - 1956, By Wilhelm 
Reich was found guilty of 
Contempt of Court for disobeying on UNLAWFUL 
ulently obtained order 
against his work (1954) and for stating at trial that he had to continue with his- 
work for reasons of nationel securitye 
We, the staff members of this expedition ere factual witnesses to some aspects 
of the work such as 
Orenur experiment, Orur ( Denatured Nuclear material - 
in other words "Atoms for Peace") , the Cloud-buster, Cloudbuster plus Orur 
uals 
"Spacegun", Disabled Ba ( Epsylon alpha Dr. Reich's designation of Space ora: ‘) 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

Conferences With ATIC, notification of government officials in repponsible positions, 
Conferences with CIAs; J DOR clouds and effects, 
DOR removal (Smog socalled, 
also appears as smoky substance subsequent to UFO sightings as you know) ;DOR 
as Deadly Orgone Bnergy ; 
Orene ; 
Oranur Weather control 
: Rainmaking, also 
over deserts, Hurricane dissipation; Transportation of Orur including "queering 
of Radar", ; Breakdown (Hemiplegia) of spacegun operator while drawing from Ea, - 
And many further detailed aspects of OROP Desert Ea work such as the “energetic 
nodes found experimentally", etc., etceee. There is no shortage of facts , 
observations, and evidence. But the Truth hes so far not yet been heard, which 
is all it needs to wine 
Furthermore there is evidence for espionage against this work : Tapped 
radio, opened mail etc. Since to date UFO's are officially "nonexistent" 
The FBI has sofar declined to investigate as the subject is "not within their 
Jurisdiction", 
I am personally witness to the fact of the existence of 
the Orgone Energy Motor, and letters, documents, eto., describing the 
mysterious disappearance of one William Washington who came into possession 
of much knowledge concerning "orgonometry, mathematical, and the Motor principle," 
and who has disappeared since 1949. 
I am sure any investigating agency could 
locate hig whereabouts in a short time. It is clear that the powerful 
Oil interests in this country are out to keep their predominance in the field 
of power and income, and are involved in keeping the Orgone Energy Motor 
problem suppressed. 
These points are mentioned to give you a hint how necessary a bona fide, 
courageous, forthright investigation has become. 
I am appending a bibliography 
for your convenience where you may find some of the printed evidence for our 
chargese 
If no investigation is forthcoming within a reasonably short time we are 
forced to use force;- to use the scientific power of the Energy which we have 
learnt to trigger 
( storms, floods etce) 
Sincerely yours 
* 
Lva Rozh Motte 
Eva Reich MD 
(Mrs. William S, Moise) 
Rt. 1, POB 721 
Alexandria, Va 
SOuth 5 - 7081 
Other 
Former Staff members: Expedition Orop Desert 
1) 
Robert A, MoCullough 
Ea 
¥ 
2) 
William Steig 
3) Willdam Moise 
PS Since it will take me a day or two to prepare reference list, it will follow 
and is not enclosed, as stated in letter. 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

Eva Reich wD 
( Mrs. William S, Moise) 
Rt. 1, POB 721 
Alexandria, Va 
Mr. Leonard Stringfield 
C.R.I.F.O, Orbit 
7017 Britton Avenne 
Cincinnati 27, Ohio 
—S—e 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

| 
1 
ENCLOSURES TO BUREAU (62-8389) (RM) 
| 
CI. 100-11671 
Two autostats of letter to LEONARD H. STRINGFIELD from EVA REICH, M.D. 
dated3/19/57. 
ft: 
~ 
} 
CeRY lp (ac 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

STANDARD FORM NO. 64 
@ 
s 
Office Memorandum * UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT 
TO 
=: DIRECTOR, FBI (62-83894) 
: 
4/2k/57 
FROM tie 
(62-0) 
SUBJECT: QIVILIAN RESE. 
7) 
INTERPLANETAR' 
LYING OBJECTS 
LEONARD H./STRINGFIELD, Director, 
7017 Brit&éon Ave., Cincinnati 27, Ohio 
MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION CONCERNING 
Relet from Norfolk to Bureau dated 4/18/57. 
For information 
of Bureau, only record in 
Richmond indices on EVA/REICH (Mrs. WILLIAM § 
{ MOISE) is 
that contained in Richnfond letter to Bureau Mated 3/28/57 
entitled "WILHELM REICH, MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION 
CONCERNING". 
RUC 
TEB/mew 
_2-Director 
1-Cineinnati (100-11671) (Info. ) 
1-Richmond 
ca, wae ag CaferTy 
397 
6 APR 341957 
\ 
>” 
N 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

AULSIW 30 1436 $1 
 paaranae 
6G WU SS 2 ETM 
Sanu 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

FEDERAL BUR! 
U.S. DEPAI 
COMMUNICATIONS SECTION 
NOV 7 1957 
TELETYPE 
. Clayton__ 
| Tele. Room 
URGENT 11-7-57 
12-41 AM GPU 
_ | Me Gllomaa 
— 
TO DIRECTOR 2 
FROM SAC NEW. 
ip 
3 UNIDENTIF IED-PLYING OBJECTS “OVER INCORPORATED VILLAGE. OF OLD BROOK= 
VILLE, LI, NY. 
EVENING OF ELEVEN SIX FIFTYSEVEN. 
INFO CONCERNING, 
JAMES COLYER, PD OF 
INC. VILLAGE OF OLD BROOKVILLE ADVISED SEVERAL 
RESIDENTS OF THAT AREA AND MEMBER OF PD HAVE REPORTED SIGHTING TWO RED 
LIGHTS HOVERING IN 
AIR THAT VICINITY. LIGHTS APPEAR TO BE AN EVEN 
DISTANCE APART AND TO BE JOINED TOGETHER. 
AT ONE TIME THESE LIGHTS 
LIT UP AND SEEMED TO CAST A RED DUST OR FOG IN SURROUNDING AIR. 
COLYER ADVISED HE REPORTED ABOVE INFO TO MITCHELL AFB ‘AND ROSELYN 
AIRFIELD. 
BOTH ADVISED RECEIVING NUMEROUS REPORTS RE ABOVE AND 
| ROSELYN AIR FIELD SAID AIRCRAFT ARE INVESTIGATING MATTER. 
COLYER 
) ADVISED ABOVE INFO BROADCAST ON NEWS PROGRAM LOCAL RADIO STATION WINS. 
| ioe ONE, G-TWO, CAA IN AREA ADVISED. 
END AND ACK PLS 
NY R 2 WA LO 
RECORDED . F) 
13 NOV 8 1957 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

UG. 
HU 9" c] 
Z AON 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

STANDARD FORM NO. 64 
Office Membb:ndum * UNITED sles GOVERNMENT 
a 
? DIRECTOR FBI 
DATE: 
11-8-57 
From 
: SAC KANSAS CITY 
(66-2995) 
supjecT: FLYING DISCS_ 
INFORMATION CONCERNING 
On November 5, 1957, SA (A) 
¥ 
ER S. POND received 
information from Mr. DONALD KEITH‘GASH, 3012 Blucr pee 
Kansas City, Missouri that an uncle, LELAND JESSE7GASH 
or JESSE LELAND GASH, employed by an aircraft concern and 
residing at Fort Worth, Texas, about two years ago saw an 
unidentified subject in the sky near his home. 
He obtained 
his movie camera and took pictures of the object. 
About 
eighteen months ago the uncle visited in Kansas City and 
the movies of the flying disc were shown, 
According to 
GASH, the pictures were very good and consisted of about 
fifteen feet of film, 
Mr. GASH stated that he and his uncle have felt “foolish" 
when discussing the matter and never bothered to report it. 
He said however in view of the late international developments 
he felt that the Government should have this information. 
In view of the fact that the Bureau may be interested 
in this film, it is requested that the Dallas Office at 
Fort Worth, Texas locate and interview LELAND JESSE GASH 
or JESSE LELAND GASH and obtain the film for transmittal 
to the Bureau. 
It is suggested that the Bureau, after reviewing the 
film, advise the Office of Special Investigations, USAF, 
of any pertinent information deemed appropriate. 
2 
2 - Bureau 
2 - Dallas 
1 - Kansas City (66-2995) 
WSP :j1 
a, 
(5) 
) 
je 
Bi NOV #21957 
GANOV 18 1957 
Fr 7* 


--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---

4-41 (Rev. 7-25-57) 
6 
r ) 
: 
Tolson 
j 
Nichols 
d 
Boardman 
= 
DECODED COPY 
‘Ayre t 
Mohr 
= 
Parsons 
Ip 
Tamm — 
» Re 
Radio 
(1 Teletype 
cee 
Cc 
Gandy 
DEFERR 
11-8-57 
DIRECTOR 
ZL 
FROM SAC, HOUSTON Se 
f 
oh 
, UNIDENTIFIED OBJECT WHICH FELL NEAR HOME MRS, powaLpABLevins, " 
HOUSTON, TEXAS, OCTOBER 24 LAST. INFORMATION CONCERNING, 
MRS. DONALD BLEVINS, 1235 SHAWNEE, HOUSTON, ADVISED THAT ON 
OCTOBER 24 LAST OBJECT BETWEEN SIZE OF GOLF BALL AND FIST 
FELL INTO HER YARD. OBJECT ALLEGEDLY OF METALLIC ASH OF 
SOME KIND, WAS BRIGHT AND HOT WHEN IT FELL. OBJECT FOUND 
™ 
BY MRS. BLEVINS’ SON WHO REPORTED IT TO SCIENCE TEACHER, 
WHO SUGGESTED AUTHORITIES BE CONTACTED. INFORMATION FURNISHED 
OS!, ELLINGTON AFB, WHO HAS CONDUCTED INVESTIGATION. PRESS 
INQUIRY RECEIVED TODAY.. ANSWERED BY STATING REPORT OF FALLING 
OBJECT HAD BEEN RECELVED AND INFORMATION CONCERNING HAD BEEN 
RELAYED TO MILITARY AUTHORITIES, ELLINGTON AFB. OBJECT 
ACCORDING TO OST 1S PART OF AN ORDINARY FLARE. AND OF NO 
SIGNIFICANCE. FOR BUREAUS INFORMATION. 
RECEIVED: 
4:44 PM RADIO 
5:11 PM CODING UNIT HJT 
INDEXED-50 
= a 
If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably 
paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau’s cryptographic systems. 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

OUT 
iov- 
§- 5 35 PH 5 
ot 
COMMUNICATIONS SFCTION 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

4-41 (Rev. 7-25-57) 
@ 
\ | 
r 
gpl 
DECODED COPY 
"6 feom 
Mohr — 
yee wa 
[ 
Rosen! 
Tamm 
. 
Trotter 
ie 
Nease 
Tele. Room 
kx) Radio 
[ Teletype 
ce 
Gandy 
DEFERRED 
_11-8-57 
PEL 
To DIREGTOR Fu y 
Py 
FROM SAC, SPRINGIELD 
072245 
Gy 
vy, 
) ybept 
REPORT OF SIGHTING OF unknown FLING OBJECT NEAR DANVILLE, 
ef i 
ILLINOIS, NOVEMBER 
6, 1957, 
fNFORMATION CONCERNING. ASSISTANT 
CHIEF WALTER A. EIGHEN, TEC INOIS STATE POLICE, REPORTED THAT 
Wsinors | SP OFFICERS CALVIN SHOWERS AND JOHN MATULIS, DISTRICT TEN, 
o77"* ~~ REPORTED AT APPROXIMATELY 9:00 PM, NOVEMBER 7, 1957, SIGHTING 
A BRIGHT WHITE LIGHT FLYING THROUGH THE AIR IN A SOUTHWESTERLY 
DIRECTION FROM DANVILLE, ILLINOIS, OFFICERS TRIED TO FOLLOW 
| IN ‘THEIR CAR IN THE SAME DIRECTION AND DROVE GENERALLY IN A 
Poe 
SOUTHWESTERLY DIRECTION FOR TWENTY MILES WHEN THEY LOST SIGHT 
OF THE OBJECT. 
DURING THIS TIWE IT APPEARED AS BRIGHT WHITE, 
AMBER AND ORANGE. 
NO INDICATION THAT IT DIPPED TO THE GROUND 
OR THAT IT AFFECTED THEIR CAR. THEY REPORTED FOR A FEW SECONDS 
IT SEEMED TO AFFECT BOTH THE RECEIVER AND TRANSMITTER OF THEIR 
FM TWO-WAY RADIO. REPRESENTATIVES OF INTERNATIONAL NEWS SERVICE 
INQUIRED THIS OFFICE CONCERNING, NO COMMENT WAS MADE. 
ABOVE 
BEING FURNISHED FOR INFORMATION BUREAU. 
2DED - 90 
RECEIVED: 
11:49 AM RADIO 
RECORDED - s 
CEIVED: 
AN! 
RADI 
INDEXED-50 Gi. 
12:17 PM CODING UNITS’ 
MW 
If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably 
paraphrased in order to piotect the Bureau’s cryptographic systems. 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

39iusnr 40 “kd3Q's-p 
€ 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT 
NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL 
WASHINGTON 
November 5, 1957 
He Bill 
ISTANT 
DIRECTOR, FSI 
Pursuant to my conversation with you a few moments ago, 
there is enclosed a letig# received by General Cutler's 
office today from Mr. 
asuski, 5457 Jos. Campau, Detroit 11 
san. 
It would be appreciated if the Bureau, at its convenience, 
would arrange for a representative to interview Mr. Kiasuski 
for the purpose of obtaining any information in his possession 
in elaboration of the substance of his letter. 
Your re 
in this and related matters is appreciated. 
gw 
J. Patrick Coyne 
> 
« 
“,? VN 
‘¢ 
es Na ” | 
Ne Ee 
te 
I would appreciate the return 
ir. Kiasuski's letter 
when it has served your purpos 


--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---

Dear Mr. Robert Cutler; 
Nov. 4, 57. 
I might have some information about the rocket in Texas. 
I heard about it on the Polish Radio Program, 
I would like to know to whom I could speak to. 
NCLO 
Eee ok SS 
UN 
Sineerly Your's 
Mr. ud 
Krasuski 
5457 Jos, Campan 
Detroit 11, Mich, 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

RECORDED-84 
Tolson 
Nichols 
Belmont 
Mohr 
Parsons 
Rosen 
Tamm 
Trotter 
Nease 
Sanson — OA) 
fa 
buber 65 1957 
icant 
PLAIN TEXT 
SAC, DETROIT 
15-43 674- GBR 
UNIDENTIF T@D FLYING OBJECTS, IS=-X, 
MR. W. KIASUSKT, 
FIVE FOUR FIVE SEVEN JOS, CAUPAU, DETROIT, (MICHIGAN, 
ADDRESSED LETIER DATED NOVEMBER FOURTH TO ROBERT CUTLER, 
WHO IS SPECIAL ASSISTANT TO THE PRESIDENT, STATING QUOTE I 
MIGHT HAVE SOME INFORMATION ABOUT THE ROCKET IN TEXAS, 
I 
HEARD ABOUT IT ON THE POLISH RADIO PROGRAM, 
I WOULD LIKE 
TO KNOW TO WHOM I COULD SPEAK TO, UNQUOTE 
IMMEDIATELY 
INTERVIEW KIASUSKI FOR ANY INFORMATION HE MAY HAVE, 
BUFILES 
REFLECT NO INFORM@TION RE KIASUSKI, 
SUTEL. 
OF INVESTIGATION 
T OF sySTICE 
HOOVER 
IONS SECTION 
j 
wy 
: 
4 
Teletype Unit f 
Tele. Room 
Holloman 
| Gandy 


--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---

é FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION 
U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE 
COMMUNICATIONS SECTION 
NOV? 1957 / 
ite 
bs 
Mr. 
7, 
TELETYPE 
Mr, 
Tele,’ ROOM ere 
URGENT 
4-7-57 4-55 PM EST WHE 
4 
Ome 
TO DIRECTOR FBI 
y 
FROM SAC, DETROIT 1P 
UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS, IS - X. REBUTEL NOV SIX LAST. ~_) 
AYSLAWKRASUSKI, AKA WALTERYKRASUSKI, Dos (») (6) 
tp 
“(b) (6) 
WAS GERMAN POW 
: Nig NINETEEN FORTY TWO, UNTIL SUMMER OF NINETEEN FOURTYFIVE. 
“VaRRIVED NY MAY TWO, NINETEEN FIFTYONE, AS DP, AR no? 
. 
KRASUSKI UPON INTERVIEW 
VISED THAT WHILE GERMAN POW DURING NINETEEN FORTYFOUR OBSERVED 
VEHICLE DESCRIBED AS CIRCULAR IN SHAPE, SEVENTY FIVE TO ONE 
HUNDRED YARDS IN DIAMETER, APPROXIMATELY FOURTEEN FEET HIGH. THE 
VEHICLE WAS OBSERVED TO SLOWLY RISE VERTICALLY TO HEIGHT 
YQ SUFFICIENT TO CLEAR FIFTY FOOT WALL AND TO MOVE SLOWLY 
ENGINE OF TRACTOR FAILED TO OPERATE DURING THIS PERIOD AND 
ONE OTHER OCCASION WHEN HIGH PITCHED WHINNING NOISE HEARD 
IN AREA, 
NO INDICATION OF MENTAL INSTABILITY DURING 
INTERVIEW,.FURTHER-DETAILS FOLLOW AMSD. 
TU DIC 
oe 
2 
cA fd Rarnde Bane 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

ir. Boardman 
fr. Belmont 
I - Mr. Sanders 
1 = Liaison 
BY COURIER SERVICE 
November 8, 19597 
Hr, J, Patrick Coyne 
National Security Council 
Executive yar Building 
Washington 25, D. C. 
Spee 2574 - BES 
d 
mary 
: 
PIGEON 
Reference is made to the letter addressed 
to "Mr 
bert Cutler, Washington 25, D. C.," by 
ur, WAxKrasuskt, 5457 
Jos. Campau, Detroit 11, Michigan, 
tn which Mr. Krasus 
vised that he might have some 
information “about the rocket in Texas." He desired 
to know to whom ke could speak in this regard. 
RECORDED-84 
Mr, Krasuski was interviewed on November 7, 1957, 
at which time he advised that his name is Wlayslaw krasuskt, 
that he is also known as Walter Krasuski, that he was born 
on (b) (6) 
» Gndtthat he was 
@ German prisoner of war from May, 1942, until the Sumner 
of 1945, 
Krasuski advised thatthe arrived in New York on 
May 2, 1951. as @ displaced person, Alien Registration, _ 
MNuinbe r (>) (©) 
+ 
He advised that during 1944, while hetwasS 
« German prisoner of war, he observed a vehicle desertied 
as Circular in shape, seventy-five to one hundred yends!, in 
Gdiameter, and approximately fourteen feet high. 
He stated, 
the vehicle was observed, to rise vertically to a heiGAt- 
_, 
E> Ow 
sufficient to clear a fifty-foot wall and that it mow 
w 
slowly horizontally a short distance out of view which was 
obstructed by trees, 
He stated that the engine of a 
© es 
tractor failed to operate during this pertod and that the ~ 
engine fatled on one other occasion when a high-piteked 
whining; noise was heard in the area, 
During the interview, 
Xrasuski spoke in a rattonal manner with no indieation “of 
mental instability. 
v 
\ 
radii 
ESS:dmn \i f 
Nichols 
(13) 
pp! 
Boardman 
Belmont 
Mohr 
Parsons 
ae 
di 
Roser 
> 
f 
one 
ZN 
BY COURIER Svcs 
Trower 7 BNOV 
24° 4957 
N 
JINN OT IBS 
Holloman 
Gandy 
MAIL ROOM [_] 
COMM = EBE 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

Hr. J. Patrick Coyne 
You will be advised of any further information 
which may be received regarding Krasuski and the 
information furnished by him 
Pursuant to your request, Mr. Krasuski's 
letter is returned herewith. 
. 
& 
Sincerely yours, 
7 
We) Eagay Hoover 
2b. 
Office of Security 
Department of State 
Director 
Centra] Intelligence Agency 
Attention: Deputy Director, Plans 
Assistant Chief of Staff, Intelligence 
Department of the Army 
Attention: 
Chiey, Security Division 
Director of Naval Intelligence 
Office of Special Investigations 
Air Force 
Jumigration and Naturalization Service 
-~2= 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

FD-36 (Rev. 3-1.+56) 
-” 
‘Transmit the following message via 
(Priority or Method of Mailing) 
@ GNU 
Approved: 
Special Agent in Charge 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

fbi Heng / 
onda? a 
Gay 
£5. HY 60 1} 
SY AOR 
G3 
¥OLdFYI0-G3AI393Y 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE 
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION 
Detroit 31, 
In Reply, Please Refer to 
File No. 
a sop 
oh, 
A CA Spsti¢ 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

Uninsulated 
bE 
E 
: 
er, 
x" 
ich to 
¢ 
diameter, on 
the ground, in some places covered 
were observed on this and previous occasions, 
apparently running between ti 
enclosure and a 
all 
conerete column-like structure between the road and enclosure. 
This area was not visited by Krasuski 
again until shortly after the end of Wo 1d War II, when it 
was observed the cables had been removed and the previous 
locations of the concrete structure and the enclosure were 
covered by water. 
Krasuski stated he has not been in 
communication since 1945 with 
any of the work crew of 16 
or 18 men, consisting of ‘tussian, French 
C 
I 
Ws 
nah 
who had 
discussed this incide 
among 
t 
elves 
mé 
times. 
uski was able 
i, 
no address 
and presumed 
945 


--- PAGE BREAK ---



--- PAGE BREAK ---

gee 
BY COUR 
SERVICE 
y* 
November 15, 1957 
Ur. J. Patrick Coyne 
National Security Council 
fxecutive Office Butlding 
Washington 25, D. ¢. 
Dear Pat: 
Reference is made to my letter of 
November &, 1957, jurnishing information supplied 
by Mr. Wladyslaw Krasuski concerning an 
unidentified flying object which he observed 
in 1944 while in Germany. 
Attached is a copy of a memorandun 
lects the details of the interview 
rasuski. 
A copy of the memorandum 
been furnished to each of 
the agenctes 
@ copy of this letter, listed below, 
es a matter of interest to those agenctes. 
Sincerely yours, 
] 
J,, Edgar Hoover 
Endlosure 
‘ 
1 = Office of Special Investigations 
Air Poree 
(évcupsare) 
1 = Director 
Central Intelligence Agency 
Attentions Deputy Director, Plans (é *¢losuke) 
i - Assistant Chief of Staff, Intelligence ou 
Department of the Army) 
© -* Gemitt esate) 
ae 
Attention: GT» Security Division 
be 
rat a 
be 1Sy 
MAIL ROOM [_] 
\ 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

